README.md, before:

# Purpose: Extract Medical Concepts from Physician Notes
This package simplifies communication with cTAKES NLP servers which produce matches with UMLS Concepts.

- Clinical Text and Knowledge Extraction System ([cTAKES](http://ctakes.apache.org))
- Unified Medical Language System ([UMLS](https://nlm.nih.gov/research/umls))

# Quickstart
Clinical text fragment or entire physician note.

```python
physician_note = 'Chief Complaint: Patient c/o cough, denies fever, recent COVID test negative. Denies smoking.'
output = ctakesclient.client.post(physician_note)
```

# Output

This client parses responses into lists of MatchText and UmlsConcept.

```
CtakesJSON(output)

list_match() -> List[MatchText]

list_concept() -> List[UmlsConcept]

list_sign_symptom() -> List[MatchText]

list_disease_disorder() -> List[MatchText]

list_medication() -> List[MatchText]

list_procedure() -> List[MatchText]

list_anatomical_site() -> List[MatchText]
```

# MatchText: Physician Notes
MatchText(s) are the character positions in the physician note where a UmlsConcept was found.

![MatchText::= begin end text polarity UmlsConcept+](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/MatchText.png)

# MatchText: Polarity
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/polarity.png)

# UMLS Concept
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/UmlsConcept.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/cui.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/tui.png)

# UMLS Vocabulary
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/codingScheme.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/code.png)

# UMLS Semantic Types and Groups
You can browse the [list of UMLS Semantic Types](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts/umls/semantic-network/root)
at the National Library of Medicine.

Commit message:

feat!: switch to async http request methods
This changes the following API methods to be async:
- client.post
- client.extract
- transformer.list_polarity
- transformer.map_polarity

They all also take an optional client parameter, to specify an
httpx.AsyncClient.

This also drops support for python 3.7 for its lack of good async
testing support (and it's about to be EOL anyway).

Version has been bumped to 3.0.0, as this is a major breaking change.

README.md, after:

# Purpose: Extract Medical Concepts from Physician Notes
This package simplifies communication with cTAKES NLP servers which produce matches with UMLS Concepts.

- Clinical Text and Knowledge Extraction System ([cTAKES](http://ctakes.apache.org))
- Unified Medical Language System ([UMLS](https://nlm.nih.gov/research/umls))

# Quickstart
Clinical text fragment or entire physician note.

```python
physician_note = 'Chief Complaint: Patient c/o cough, denies fever, recent COVID test negative. Denies smoking.'
output = await ctakesclient.client.post(physician_note)
```

Note that `ctakesclient` uses an async API.
If your code is not async, you can simply wrap calls in `asyncio.run()`:

```python
output = asyncio.run(ctakesclient.client.post(physician_note))
```

# Output

This client parses responses into lists of MatchText and UmlsConcept.

```
CtakesJSON(output)

list_match() -> List[MatchText]

list_concept() -> List[UmlsConcept]

list_sign_symptom() -> List[MatchText]

list_disease_disorder() -> List[MatchText]

list_medication() -> List[MatchText]

list_procedure() -> List[MatchText]

list_anatomical_site() -> List[MatchText]
```

# MatchText: Physician Notes
MatchText(s) are the character positions in the physician note where a UmlsConcept was found.

![MatchText::= begin end text polarity UmlsConcept+](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/MatchText.png)

# MatchText: Polarity
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/polarity.png)

# UMLS Concept
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/UmlsConcept.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/cui.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/tui.png)

# UMLS Vocabulary
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/codingScheme.png)
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Machine-Learning-for-Medical-Language/ctakes-client-py/de43929/docs/diagram/code.png)

# UMLS Semantic Types and Groups
You can browse the [list of UMLS Semantic Types](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts/umls/semantic-network/root)
at the National Library of Medicine.
