

ANATOMICAL SUMMARY  
1. Sharp force wound of neck, left side, with transection of left internal
jugular vein.  
2. Multiple stab wounds of chest, abdomen, and left thigh: Penetrating stab
wounds of chest and abdomen with right hemothorax and hemoperitoneum.  
3. Multiple incised wounds of scalp, face, neck, chest and left hand (defense
wound).  
4. Multiple abrasions upper extremities and hands (defense wounds).

NOTES AND PROCEDURES  
1. The body is described in the Standard Anatomical Position. Reference is to
this position only.  
2. Where necessary, injuries are numbered for reference. This is arbitrary
and does not correspond to any order in which they may have been incurred. All
the injuries are antemortem, unless otherwise specified.  
3. The term "anatomic" is used as a specification to indicate correspondence
with the description as set forth in the textbooks of Gross Anatomy. It
denotes freedom from significant, visible or morbid alteration.

EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is that of a well developed, well nourished
Caucasian male stated to be 25 years old. The body weighs 171 pounds,
measuring 69 inches from crown to sole. The hair on the scalp is brown and
straight. The irides appear hazel with the pupils fixed and dilated. The
sclerae and conjunctive are unremarkable, with no evidence of petechial
hemorrhages on either. Both upper and lower teeth are natural, and there are
no injuries of the gums, cheeks, or lips.

There is a picture-type tattoo on the lateral aspect of the left upper arm.
There are no deformities, old surgical scars or amputations.

Rigor mortis is fixed.

The body appears to the Examiner as stated above. Identification is by toe tag
and the autopsy is not material to identification. The body is not embalmed.

The head is normocephalic, and there is extensive evidence of external
traumatic injury, to be described below. Otherwise, the eyes, nose and mouth
are not remarkable. The neck shows sharp force injuries to be described below.
The front of the chest and abdomen likewise show injuries to be described
below. The genitalia are that of an adult male, with the penis circumcised,
and no evidence of injury.

Examination of the posterior surface of the trunk reveals no antemortem
traumatic injuries.

Refer to available photographs and diagrams and to the specific documentation
of the autopsy protocol.

CLOTHING: The clothes were examined both before and after removal from the
body.  
The decedent was wearing a long-sleeved type of shirt/sweater; it was
extensively bloodstained.

On the front, lower right side, there was a 1 1/2 inch long slit-like tear.
Also on the lower right sleeve there was a 1 inch slit-like tear. On the back
there was a 1/2 inch slit-like tear on the right lower side.

Decedent was wearing a pair of Levi jeans bloodstained. On the outside of the
left hip region there was a 1-1/2 inch long slit-like tear. The decedent also
was wearing 2 canvas type boots and 2 sweat socks.

EVIDENCE OF THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTION: None.

EVIDENCE OF INJURY

SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF NECK  
1. Sharp force injury of neck, left side, transecting left internal jugular
vein. This sharp force injury is complex, and appears to be a combination of a
stabbing and cutting wound. It begins on the left side of the neck, at the
level of the midlarynx, over the left sternocleidomastoid muscle; it is
gaping, measuring 3 inches in length with smooth edges. It tapers superiorly
to 1 inch in length cut skin. Dissection discloses that the wound path is
through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and the sternocleidomastoid muscle
with hemorrhage along the wound path and transection of the left internal
jugular vein, with dark red-purple hemorrhage in the adjacent subcutaneous
tissue and fascia. The direction of the pathway is upward and slightly front
to back for a distance of approximately 4 inches where it exits, post-
auricular, in a 2 inch in length gaping stab/incised wound which has
undulating or wavy borders, but not serrated. Intersecting the wound at right
angle superior inferior is a 2 inch in length interrupted superficial, linear
incised wound involving only the skin. Also, intervening between the 2 gaping
stab-incised wounds is a horizontally oriented 3-1/2 inch in length
interrupted superficial, linear incised wound of the skin only. In addition,
there is a 1/2 inch long, linear-triangular in size wound of the inferior
portion of the left earlobe. The direction of the sharp force injury is upward
(rostral), and slightly front to back with no significant angulation or
deviation. The total length of the wound path is approximately 4 inches.
However, there is a 3/4 inch in length, linear, cutting or incised wound of
the top or superior aspect of the pinna of the left ear; a straight metallic
probe placed through the major sharp force injury shows that the injury of the
superior part of the ear can be aligned with the straight metallic rod,
suggesting that the 3 injuries are related; in this instance the total length
of the wound path is approximately 6 inches. Also, in the left postauricular
region, transversely oriented, extending from the auricular attachment
laterally to the scalp is a 1-1/8 inch in length linear superficial incised
skin wound.  
 OPINION: This sharp force injury of the neck is fatal, associated with
transection of the left internal jugular vein.

2. Sharp force wound of the right side of neck. This is a complex injury,
appearing to be a combination stabbing and cutting wound. The initial wound is
present on the right side of the neck, over the sternocleidomastoid muscle, 3
inches directly below the right external auditory canal. It is diagonally
oriented, and after approximation of the edges measures 5/8 inch in length;
there is a pointed or tapered end inferiorly and a split or forked end
superiorly approximately 1/16 inch in maximal width. Subsequent autopsy shows
that the wound path is through the skin and subcutaneous tissue, without
penetration of injury of a major  
artery or vein; the direction is front to back and upward for a total wound
path length of 2 inches and the wound exits on the right side of the back of
the neck, posterior to the right sternocleidomastoid muscle where a 2 inch
long gaping incised/stab wound is evident on the skin; both ends are tapered;
superiorly there is a 1 inch long superficial incised wounds extension on the
skin to the back of the head; inferiorly there is a 2 inch long incised
superficial skin extension, extending inferiorly towards the back of the neck.
There is fresh hemorrhage and bruising along the wound path; the direction, as
stated, is upward and slightly front to back.  
 OPINION: This is a nonfatal sharp force injury, with no injury or major
artery or vein.

3. At the level of the superior border of the larynx there is a transversely
oriented, superficial incised wound of the neck, extending from 3 inches to
the left of the anterior midline; it is 3 inches in length and involves the
skin only; a small amount of cutaneous hemorrhage is evident.  
 OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial incised wound.

4. ImmediateLY inferior and adjacent to incised wound #3 is a transversely
oriented, superficial incised wound involving the skin and subcutaneous
tissue; there is a small amount of dermal hemorrhage.  
 OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial incised wound.

SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF FACE  
1. There is a stab wound, involving the right earlobe; it is vertically
oriented, and after approximation of the edges measures 1 inch in length with
forked or split ends superiorly and inferiorly approximately 1/16 inch in
total width both superior and inferior. Subsequent dissection discloses that
the wound path is from right to left, in the horizontal plane for
approximately 1-1/4 inches; there is fresh hemorrhage along the wound path;
the wound path terminates in the left temporal bone and does not penetrate the
cranial cavity.  
 OPINION: This is a nonfatal stab wound.

2. There is a group of 5 superficial incised or cutting wounds on the right
side of the face, involving the right cheek and the right side of the jaw.
They are varied in orientation both diagonal and horizontal; the smallest is
1/4 inch in length; the largest 5/8 inch in length. They are superficial,
involving the skin only, associated with a small amount of cutaneous
hemorrhage.

3. On the back of the neck, right side, posterior to the ear and posterior
border of the right sternocleidomastoid muscle there is vertically oriented
superficial incised skin wound, measuring 3/4 inch in length.

4. There are numerous superficial incised wounds or cuts, varied in
orientation, involving the skin of the right cheek, intersection and mingled
with the various superficial incised wounds described above. The longest is a
3 inch long diagonally oriented superficial incised wound extending from the
right side of the forehead to the cheek; various other superficial wound vary
from 1/2 to 1 inch.

5. On the right side of the cheek, adjacent to the ramus of the mandible,
right, there is a 1-1/2 x 3/4 inch superficial nonpatterned red-brown abrasion
with irregular border, extending superiorly towards the angle of the jaw where
there are poorly defined and circumscribed abrasions adjacent to the
superficial cuts or abrasions described above. It should be noted that the 5th
superficial incised wound of the right side of the mandible which measures 5/8
inch in length is tapered on the posterior aspect and forked on the anterior
aspect where it has a width of 1/32 inch.

6. On the left ear, there is a superficial incised wound measuring 1/4 inch,
adjacent to the posterior border of the pinna. Just below this on the inferior
pinna, extending to the earlobe, there is an interrupted superficial linear
abrasion measuring 1 inch in length.

SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF SCALP  
1. The scalp is shaved postmortem for visualization. On the right posterior
parietal region of the scalp there is a sharp force wound, diagonally
oriented, and after approximation of the edges it measures 5/8 inch in length
with a perpendicularly oriented skin cut at the midpoint. Depth of penetration
is approximately 1/4 to 3/8 inch into the scalp, with associated deep scalp
hemorrhage and a subgaleal hemorrhage beneath the wound measuring 2 x 2 inches
in transverse diameter. There is no underlying fracture of the skull or
penetration of the cranium.  
 OPINION: This is a sharp force wound that may represent either a cutting
wound of a superficial stab wound; nonfatal.

2. On the posterior parietal region, midline, to the left of the wound
described above there is a 1/4 inch superficial incised wound or skin cut
measuring 1/4 inch in length; both ends are pointed or tapered; extension is
1/4 inch into the scalp with a small amount of deep scalp hemorrhage but no
subgaleal hemorrhage.

3. On the left posterior parietal region there is an injury that is an
abrasion, 1/4 x 1/8 inch in maximal diameter and an ovoid in configuration; it
is red-brown with a small amount of superficial skin bruising.  
 OPINION: This is a skin abrasion-bruise, noncharacteristic.

DESCRIPTION OF MULTIPLE STAB WOUNDS  
On the right side of the chest adjacent to the stab wound there are multiple,
irregular, brown abrasions consistent with ant bites.

1. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT SIDE OF CHEST.  
The stab wound is located on the right side of the chest, 22 inches below the
top of the head and 5 inches from the back of the body; it is vertically
oriented and after approximation of the edges it measures 5/8 inch in length.
Inferiorly there is a squared off or dull end approximately 1/32 in length;
superiorly the wound is tapered. Subsequent autopsy shows that the pathway is
through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and through the right 7th rib at
the approximately midaxillary line where the rib is totally incised.
Thereafter, it enters the right pleural cavity which at the time of autopsy
contains approximately 100-200 ml of predominantly liquid blood. The path is
through the lateral base of the border of the right lower lobe as the path is
through the pleura and the immediately subjacent pulmonary parenchyma which is
hemorrhagic; the pleural wounds are approximately 1/2-3/4 inch in length;
thereafter the pathway is from right to left and back to front and through the
pleural cavity where the wound path terminates on the anterior rib cage where
a 3/4 cutting wound is found on the posterior aspect of the right 4th rib
anteriorly at the approximate midclavicular line; there is overlying bruising
in the adjacent intercostal musculature. Estimated length of the total wound
path is 4 inches and as stated the direction is right to left and back to
front with no other angulation measurable.  
 OPINION: This is a fatal wound associated with perforation of the right  
lung and a hemothorax.

2. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT SIDE OF CHEST.  
This wound is located on the right side of the chest, 21 inches below the top
of the head and 2 inches from the back of the body. After approximation of the
edges it measures 1-1/2 inches in length and is diagonally oriented; the
posterior aspect is dull or flat, measuring 1/32 inch and the anterior aspect
is pointed or tapered. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound is through the
skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and the intercostal musculature and it
penetrates into the pleural cavity through the 8th right intercostal space
without striking rib. Thereafter the pathway is similar to stab wound #1 as it
passes obliquely through the pleura and subjacent hemorrhagic parenchyma at
the base of the right lower lobe; 1/2 inch and 3/4 inch pleural cuts are
evident both posteriorly and anteriorly. No other terminating point is
evident. There is fresh hemorrhage and bruising noted along the wound path as
well as the hemothorax described above. The direction is right to left with no
other angulation or deviation determined because of absence of fixed reference
points. Estimated minimum total depth of penetration is 2-3 inches.  
 OPINION: This is a fatal stab wound associated with perforation of the
lung and hemothorax.

3. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT FLANK.  
This is a diagonally oriented wound, on the right flank, 29 inches below the
top of the head and 3-1/2 inches to the back of the body. It measures 3/8 inch
in length and involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue without penetrating
the chest wall or abdominal wall. No square or dull edges are evident. Both
ends are rounded or tapered.  
OPINION: This is a superficial cutting wound, representing either a
superficial stab wound or an incised wound.

4. STAB WOUND OF LEFT THIGH.  
This is a transversely oriented stab wound on the lateral left thigh, 33
inches above the left heel and 4 inches from the back of the thigh. After
approximation of the edges it measures 2-1/8 inches in length and posteriorly
there is a dull or flat end 1/32 inch and anteriorly a pointed or tapered end.
Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound path is through the skin, the
subcutaneous tissue, and the muscle without striking bone. There is fresh
hemorrhage along the wound path. The depth of penetration is 3 to 3-1/2 inches
from left to right without angulation or deviation.  
 OPINION: This is a stab wound of the soft tissue and muscle of the left
thigh, nonfatal.

5. STAB WOUND OF LEFT SIDE OF ABDOMEN  
This is a transversely oriented stab wound on the left side of the abdomen,
located 45 inches above the left heel. After approximation of the edges it
measures 3/4 inch in length with the anterior end pointed or tapered and the
posterior end forked or split. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound passes
through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and through the retroperitoneal
tissue which is hemorrhagic; the pathway is through the left ilio-psoas muscle
associated with fresh hemorrhage and bruising. The path is from left to right
and slightly back to front; the wound path terminates in the abdominal aorta
approximately 1-1/4 inches proximal to the bifurcation. Two perforating 1/2
inch wounds are seen in the wall of the aorta with surrounding para-aortic
hemorrhage. In addition to the retroperitoneal hemorrhage, including
hemorrhage into the mesocolon, approximately 100 ml of liquid blood is found
free within the peritoneal cavity. In addition to the fresh bruising and
hemorrhage along the wound path the entire length of the wound path is
approximately 5-1/2 inches. The direction is left to right, and a slightly
back to front direction with no other angulation or deviation evident.  
 OPINION: This is a fatal stab wound associated with perforation of the
abdominal aorta with retroperitoneal and intra-abdominal hemorrhage.

6. STAB WOUND OF THE RIGHT UPPER CHEST, LATERAL BORDER OF RIGHT CLAVICLE  
This vertically oriented superficial stab wound or incised wound is located on
the lateral border of the right clavicle, is vertically oriented, and measures
1/2 inch in length; involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue; inferiorly the
wound is split or forked and superiorly it is tapered or pointed. It should be
noted that all of the split or forked ends of the previously mentioned stab
wounds overall measure approximately 1/16 to 1/8 inch in overall width. There
is a small amount of fresh cutaneous hemorrhage. No direction can be evident
except for front to back, inasmuch as it is superficial.  
 OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial stab wound or cutting wound.

SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF HANDS:

1. On the palmar surface of the right hand, at the base of the index finger,
there is a cutting or incised wound, 3/4 inch in length and 1/2 inch deep
involving the skin and subcutaneous tissue with hemorrhage in the margins.
Both ends are rounded or tapered.  
OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.

2. On the palmar surface of the right hand, just proximal to the web of the
thumb, there is a triangular or Y-shaped cutting wound measuring 1/2 inch in
length maximally and 1/4 inch deep with hemorrhage at the margins.  
 OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.

3. On the palmar surface of the left hand at the web of the thumb, there is a
3/4 inch in size or cutting wound involving the skin, and subcutaneous tissue;
it is approximately 1/4 inch deep with hemorrhage at the margins. Both ends
are tapered or pointed with smooth edges similar to the 2 wounds described
above.  
 OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.

OTHER INJURIES TO HANDS AND UPPER EXTREMITIES:

1. On the lateral aspect of the right distal forearm, adjacent to the wrist,
there is a 3/4 x 1/2 inch abrasion on the ulnar surface, red-brown in color,
nonpatterned.

2. On the lateral or outer aspect of the left forearm there are multiple
abrasions both linear and one that is approximately triangular measuring 3/4 x
1/2 inch; they are all brown to red-brown in color and antemortem; the longest
linear abrasion is 3/4 inch in length.

3. On the dorsal surface of the right hand there are fresh bruises (red-
purple in color) and fresh red-brown abrasions. On the proximal knuckle of the
right middle finger a 1 x 3/4 inch bruise with no overlying abrasion. On the
middle knuckle of the index finger a 1/2 x 1/2 inch bruise surrounding a 1/8
nondescript abrasion; just distal on the middle phalanx of the middle finger a
1/8 nondescript abrasion. On the proximal knuckle of the right index finer
there is a 1/2 x 1/2 inch fresh bruise surrounding a linear diagonally
oriented 1/2 inch red-brown abrasion. There is a 1/2 x 1/2 inch fresh bruise
on the middle of the right ring finger surrounding 2 punctate abrasions
approximately 1/8 inch in maximal diameter; on the middle knuckle of the right
5th finger there is a 1/16 inch punctate nondescript abrasion.

4. On the dorsal side of the left hand there are multiple red-brown abrasions
irregular in configuration and border, involving the 3 knuckles of the left
index finger; maximal dimension 1/4 x 3/8 inch, all red-brown in color. There
is an irregularly configured abrasion on the proximal knuckle of the left
middle finger consisting of an apparent 3 linear 1/2 inch abrasions converging
at the center having a somewhat configuration of the letter W. These are all
superficial skin abrasions. On the dorsal side of the left hand adjacent to
the web of the thumb there is a linear, 3/4 inch long skin abrasion
terminating in a 1/8 inch nondescript punctate abrasion  
near the base of the thumb. There is a fresh bruise, 1-1/4 x 1-1/2 inch on the
dorsal surface of the left hand adjacent to the wrist surrounding a punctate
abrasion.

5.. There are 2 fresh bruises on the ulnar surface of the left wrist,
nonabraded, measuring respectively 3/8 x 3/8 inch and 1/2 x 1/2 inch, with the
bruising involving the skin and dermis.

INTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is opened with the usual Y-shaped
thoracoabdominal incision revealing the abdominal adipose tissue to measure
1/2 to 3/4 inch in thickness. The anterior abdominal wall has its normal
muscular components and no blunt force injuries are evident. Exposure of the
body cavities shows the contained organs in their usual anatomic locations
with their usual anatomic relationships. The serosal surfaces are smooth,
thin, and glistening and the free blood within the peritoneal cavity due to
the stab wound as previously described; this also includes the left
retroperitoneal hemorrhage, hemorrhage into the left ilio-psoas muscle, and
the mesocolon.

INTERNAL EVIDENCE OF INJURY: Aside from the stab wounds of the chest and
abdomen, there are no other internal traumatic injuries involving the thoracic
or abdominal viscera.

SYSTEMIC AND ORGAN REVIEW: Autopsy findings, or lack of them, considered
apart from those already stated. The following observations pertain to
findings other than the injuries and changes that are described above.

MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM -SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE-SKIN: Anatomic except as
otherwise stated or implied.

HEAD -CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: The brain weighs 1,400 grams. The external
indications of injury as well as the deep scalp and subgaleal hemorrhage have
been described above. There is no hemorrhage into the temporal muscle or the
orbits. There are no tears of the dura mater and no recent epidural, subdural,
or subarachnoid hemorrhage. The dura is stripped revealing no fractures of the
bones of the calvarium or base of the skull. The pituitary gland is normally
situated in the sella turcica and is not enlarged. The cranial nerves are
enumerated and they are intact, symmetrical and anatomic in size, location and
course. The component vessels of the circle of Willis are identified and they
are anatomic in size, course and configuration. The blood vessels are intact,
free of aneurysm or other anomaly, are non-occluded, and show no significant
atherosclerosis. Multiple coronal sections of the non-formalin-fixed, fresh
brain shows: The cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brain stem, pons and
medulla to show their normal anatomical structures. The cerebellar, the
pontine and the medullary surfaces present no lesions. The cerebral cortex,
the white matter, the ventricular system and basal ganglia are anatomic. There
is no evidence of hemorrhage, cysts or neoplasm involving the brain substance.
The spinal chord is not dissected.

ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSES: Not dissected.

RESPIRATORY SYSTEM -THROAT STRUCTURES:

The oral cavity, viewed from below, is anatomic and no lesions are seen. The
mucosa is intact and there are no injuries to the lips, teeth or gums. There
is no obstruction of the airway. The injury to the left internal jugular vein
has been previously described. The mucosa of the epiglottis, glottis, piriform
sinuses, trachea and major bronchi are anatomic. No injuries are seen and
there are no mucosal lesions. The hyoid bone, the thyroid, and the cricoid
cartilages are intact. No hemorrhage is present in the tissues adjacent to the
throat organs nor is there hemorrhage into the substance of the anatomic
appearing thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands are not identified.

LUNGS: The lungs weight: Right, 420 grams; left 320 grams. The external
appearance and that of the sectioned surface of the left lung shows a pink
external surface without evidence of injuries. There is minimal congestion,
otherwise not remarkable. No foreign substance, infarction or neoplasm is
encountered. The right lung shows basilar atelectasis due to the hemothorax
caused by the stab wound to the right lower lobe described above. Otherwise
the external appearance of the sectioned surface shows no focal lesion; there
is no evidence of foreign material, infarction or neoplasm.

CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The heart weighs 290 grams, and has a normal size
and configuration. The chambers, valves, and the myocardium are anatomic.
There are no focal endocardial, valvular or myocardial lesion and no
congenital anomalies. Multiple transverse sections of the left and right
coronary arteries reveal them to be thin-walled and patent throughout with no
significant atherosclerosis. The aorta and its branches are anatomic; the
perforating stab wound injury of the distal abdominal aorta has been
previously described. The portal and caval veins and the major branches are
anatomic.

GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The mucosa and wall of the esophagus are intact
and gray-pink, without lesions or injuries. The gastric mucosa is intact and
pink without injury. There are no focal lesions, no residual medications, and
no swallowed blood is present. Approximately 200 ml of partially digested
semisolid food is found in the stomach with the presence of fragments of green
leafy vegetable material compatible with spinach. The mucosa of the duodenum,
jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum are intact. The lumen is patent. There are no
mucosal lesions or injuries and no blood is present. The fecal content is
usual in appearance. The vermiform appendix is present.

HEPATOBILIARY SYSTEM -PANCREAS: The liver weighs 1,360 grams and is normal
size and configuration. The subcapsular and the cut surfaces of the liver are
uniformly brown-red in color, free of nodularity, and usual in appearance. The
biliary duct system, including the gallbladder, is free of anomaly and no
lesions are seen. The mucosa is intact and bile stained. The lumina are patent
and no calculi are present. The pancreas is anatomic both externally and on
cut surface.

HEMOLYMPHATIC SYSTEM -ADRENAL GLAND: The spleen weighs 210 grams and has
an intact capsule. Cut surface shows a normal coloration with a firm red-
purple parenchyma and no focal lesions. The blood, the bone marrow and the
usually-named aggregates of lymph nodes do not appear to be significantly
altered. The thymus gland is not identified. The adrenal glands are usual in
size and location and the cut surface presents no lesions or injuries.
However, there is a small amount of left periadrenal hemorrhage due to the
retro-peritoneal hemorrhage caused by the stab wound.

URINARY SYSTEM: The kidneys weigh: Left, 150 grams; right, 140 grams. The
kidneys are anatomic in size, shape and location. The capsules are stripped to
show a smooth, pale brown surface. On section the cortex and medulla are
anatomic without lesions. The calyces, the pelves, the ureters and urinary-
bladder are unaltered in appearance. The mucosa is gray-pink. No calculi are
present, and no blood is present. The urinary bladder contains no measurable
urine.

MALE GENITAL SYSTEM: The testicles, the penis, the prostate gland are
anatomic to dissection.

HISTOLOGY: Representatives portions of the various organs, including the
larynx, are preserved in 10% formaldehyde and placed in a single storage
container.

TOXICOLOGY: A sample of right pleural blood as well as bile are submitted
for toxicologic analysis. Stomach contents are saved.

SEROLOGY: A sample of right pleural blood is submitted in the EDTA tube.

RADIOLOGY: None.

PHOTOGRAPHY: In addition to the routine identification photographs;
pertinent photographs are taken of the external injuries.

WITNESSES: Detectives Van Natter and Lange, LAPD, Robbery Homicide
Division, were present during the autopsy.

DIAGRAMS USED: Form 42, 16, 20F, 20H, 21 and 24 were utilized during the
performance of the autopsy.

OPINION: The decedent sustained multiple sharp force injuries, including
multiple stab wounds involving the chest and abdomen; multiple incised-stab
wounds of the neck; and multiple incised or cutting wounds. Fatal wounds were
identified involving the neck where there was transection of the left internal
jugular vein and stab wounds of the chest and abdomen causing intrathoracic
and intraabdominal hemorrhage.

Of note the cutting wounds of the left and right hands, compatible with
defensive wounds. In addition there were a number of blunt force injuries to
the upper extremities and hands, likewise compatible with defensive wounds.
The remainder of the autopsy revealed a normal, healthy adult male with no
congenital anomalies. Routine toxicologic studies were ordered.