

PREOPERATIVE DX: Dermatochalasis, mechanical ptosis, brow ptosis.

POSTOPERATIVE DX: Same

PROCEDURE: : Upper lid blepharoplasty and direct brow lift

ANESTHESIA: Local with sedation

INDICATIONS FOR SURGERY: In the preoperative evaluation the patient was
found to have visually significant and symptomatic dermatochalasis and brow
ptosis causing mechanical ptosis and visual field obstruction. Visual field
testing showed *% superior hemifield loss on the right, and *% superior
hemifield loss on the left. These field losses resolved with upper eyelid
taping which simulates the expected surgical correction. Photodocumentation
also showed the upper eyelids resting on the upper eyelashes, as well as a
decrease in the effective superior marginal reflex distance. The risks,
benefits, limitations, alternatives, and expected improvement in symptoms and
visual field loss were discussed in preoperative evaluation.

DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: On the day of surgery, the surgical site and
procedure were verified by the physician with the patient. An informed consent
was signed and witnessed. EMLA cream was applied to the eyelids and eyebrow
region for 10 minutes to provide skin anesthesia. Two drops of topical
proparacaine eye drops were placed on the ocular surface. The skin was cleaned
with alcohol prep pads. The patient received 3 to 4 mL of 2% Lidocaine with
epinephrine and 0.5% Marcaine mixture to each upper lid. 5 to 6 mL of local
were also given to the brow region along the entire length. Pressure was
applied over each site for 5 minutes. The patient was then prepped and draped
in the normal sterile fashion for oculoplastic surgery.

The desired amount of redundant brow tissue to be excised was carefully marked
with a surgical marking pen on each side. The contour of the outline was
created to provide a greater temporal lift. Care was taken to preserve a
natural contour to the brow shape consistent with the patient