

S - A 60-year-old female presents today for care of painful calluses and
benign lesions.

O - On examination, the patient has bilateral bunions at the first
metatarsophalangeal joint. She states that they do not hurt. No pain appears
to be produced by active or passive range of motion or palpation and direct
pressure of the first metatarsophalangeal joint bilaterally. The patient has a
bilateral pinch callus on the medial aspect of both great toes and there are
calluses along the medial aspect of the right foot. She has a small
intractable plantar keratoma, plantar to her left second metatarsal head,
which measures 0.5 cm in diameter. This is a central plug. She also has a
very, very painful lesion plantar to her right fourth metatarsal head which
measures 3.1 x 1.8 cm in diameter. This is a hyperkeratotic lesion that
extends deep into the tissue with interrupted skin lines.

A - 1. Bilateral bunions.  
2. Calluses.  
3. Heloma durum.  
4. Painful plantar lesions.

P - Aseptic technique was used. The feet were scrubbed with Hibiclens.
Topical anesthetic was applied and the benign lesion on the plantar aspect of
the left foot was excised. Blood loss was minimal. Hemostasis was achieved and
the wound was dressed with Neosporin ointment and absorbent dressing. The
benign lesion on the plantar aspect of the right foot was excised as well.
Blood loss was minimal. Hemostasis was achieved and the wound was dressed with
Neosporin ointment and absorbent dressing. The heloma durum was shaved
bilaterally. The patient tolerated the procedure well. She was informed that
she needs orthotics, but she says she cannot afford them. I have recommended
to the patient that she stop wearing the small old dress shoes that she is
wearing today and obtain a good pair of support athletic-type shoes such as
Reebok. Followup is every three months or whenever needed.