

NORMAL CATARACT SURGERY

PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was taken to the operating room where the
Rand-Stein anesthesia protocol was followed using alfentanil and Brevital.
Topical tetracaine drops were applied. The operative eye was prepped and
draped in the usual sterile fashion. A lid speculum was inserted.

Under the Zeiss operating microscope, a lateral clear corneal approach was
utilized. A stab incision was made with a diamond blade to the right of the
lateral limbus and the anterior chamber filled with intracameral lidocaine and
viscoelastic. A 3-mm single pass clear corneal incision was made just anterior
to the vascular arcade of the temporal limbus using a diamond keratome. A 5-
to 5.5-mm anterior capsulorrhexis was created. The nucleus was hydrodissected
and hydrodelineated, and was freely movable in the capsular bag. The nucleus
was then phacoemulsified using a quadrantic divide-and-conquer technique.
Following the deep groove formation, the lens was split bimanually and the
resultant quadrants and epicortex removed under high-vacuum burst-mode
phacoemulsification. Peripheral cortex was removed with the irrigation and
aspiration handpiece. The posterior capsule was polished. The capsular bag was
expanded with viscoelastic. The implant was inspected under the microscope and
found to be free of defects. The implant was inserted into the cartridge
system under viscoelastic and placed in the capsular bag. The trailing haptic
was positioned with the cartridge system. Residual viscoelastic was removed
from the anterior chamber and from behind the implant. The corneal wound was
hydrated with balanced salt solution. The anterior chamber was fully re-formed
through the side-port incision. The wound was inspected and found to be
watertight. The intraocular pressure was adjusted as necessary. The lid
speculum was removed. Topical Timoptic drops, Eserine and Dexacidin ointment
were applied. The eye was shielded. The patient appeared to tolerate the
procedure well and left the operating room in stable condition. Followup
appointment is with Dr. X on the first postoperative day.