

Ms. ABC follows up for cataract extraction with lens implant 2 weeks ago. She
reports that the right operated eye is improving with its comfort and visual
acuity. She reports today a 4-day history of pain and photophobia in the left
eye, which is the unoperated eye.

Her past medical history includes insulin requiring diabetes mellitus for the
past 28 years. She also has a history of gastritis and currently is being
evaluated for inflammatory bowel disease. She is scheduled to see a
gastroenterologist in the near future. She is taking Econopred 8 times a day
to the right eye and Nevanac, OD, three times a day. She is allergic to
penicillin.

The visual acuity today was 20/50, pinholing, no improvement in the right eye.
In the left eye, the visual acuity was 20/80, pinholing, no improvement. The
intraocular pressure was 14, OD and 9, OS. Anterior segment exam shows normal
lids, OU. The conjunctiva is quiet in the right eye. In the left eye, she has
an area of sectoral scleral hyperemia superonasally in the left eye. The
cornea on the right eye shows a paracentral area of mild corneal edema. In the
left eye, cornea is clear. Anterior chamber in the right eye shows trace cell.
In the left eye, the anterior chamber is deep and quiet. She has a posterior
chamber intraocular lens, well centered and in sulcus of the left eye. The
lens in the left eye shows 3+ nuclear sclerosis. Vitreous is clear in both
eyes. The optic nerves appear healthy in color and normal in size with cup-to-
disc ratio of approximately 0.48. The maculae are flat in both eyes. The
retinal periphery is flat in both eyes.

Ms. ABC is recovering well from her cataract operation in the right eye with
residual corneal swelling, which should resolve in the next 2 to 3 weeks. She
will continue her current drops. In the left eye, she has an area of what
appears to be sectoral scleritis. I did a comprehensive review of systems
today and she reports no changes in her pulmonary, dermatologic, neurologic,
gastroenterologic or musculoskeletal systems. She is, however, being evaluated
for inflammatory bowel disease. The mild scleritis in the left eye may be a
manifestation of this. We will notify her gastroenterologist of this
possibility of scleritis and will start Ms. ABC on a course of indomethacin 25
mg by mouth two times a day. I will see her again in one week. She will check
with her primary physician prior to starting the Indocin.