

The patient is a 76-year-old retired female who is well known to our practice.
She most recently underwent anterior cervical discectomy and fusion C3 through
C7 on 09/06/2005. She was last seen in the office by Dr. L on 03/16/2006 with
the anticipation of removing her anterior cervical plate for she was having a
lot of difficulty with swallowing. The surgery was set up and scheduled, but
the patient did not go through the surgery. She thinks that most recently in
past couple of months she has been having more difficulty with her swallowing.
She had a fall about two or three months ago and she states since that time
she has had more pain in the back of her neck and more pain in her arms and
difficulty swallowing. She has also seen a physician who states that she needs
shoulder surgery. Her left is worse than the right and that they will be
proceeding with that once she has had her cervical plate removed, so that she
can have some normalcy to her swallowing. She states her pains are constant.
On a 1-10 pain scale, she rates it as a 10. She takes hydrocodone for that.
Dr. S ordered MRIs and x-rays. The patient brings in with her x-rays today but
does not have her MRI. On the body image drawing, she draws head pain on the
top of her head, bilateral upper trapezius pain, bilateral arm pain into the
thumbs bilaterally, worse on the left with numbness and tingling in the lower
arm. She is not able to identify an alleviating or aggravating factor. She
describes the pain as being 80% in the neck and 20% in the left arm.

FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died at the age of 80 from prostate cancer. Her
mother died at the age of 67. She did abuse alcohol. She had a brother died at
the age of 70 from bone and throat cancer. She has two sons, ages 37 and 38
years old who are healthy. She has two daughters, ages 60 and 58 years old,
both with cancer. She describes cancer hypertension, nervous condition, kidney
disease, lung disease, and depression in her family.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She is married and has support at home. Denies tobacco,
alcohol, and illicit drug use.

ALLERGIES: Aspirin.

MEDICATIONS: The patient does not list any current medications.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension, depression, and osteoporosis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: She has had over her over her lifetime four back
surgeries and in 2005 she had anterior cervical discectomy and fusion of C3
through C7 by Dr. L. She is G10, P7, no cesarean sections.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: HEENT: Headaches, vision changes, dizziness, and sore
throat. GI: Difficulty swallowing. Musculoskeletal: She is right-handed with
joint pain, stiffness, decreased range of motion, and arthritis. Respiratory:
Shortness of breath and cough. Cardiac: Chest pain and swelling in her feet
and ankle. Psychiatric: Anxiety and depression. Urinary: Negative and
noncontributory. Hem-Onc: Negative and noncontributory. Vascular: Negative and
noncontributory. Genital: Negative and noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical exam, she is 5 feet tall and currently
weighs 110 pounds; weight one year ago was 145 pounds. BP 138/78, pulse is 64.
General: A well-developed, well-nourished female, in no acute distress. HEENT
exam, head is atraumatic and normocephalic. Eyes, sclerae are anicteric.
Teeth, she does have some poor dentition. She does say that she needs some of
her teeth pulled on her lower mouth. Cranial nerves II, III, IV, and VI,
vision is intact and visual fields are full to confrontation. EOMs are full
bilaterally. Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Cranial nerves V
and VII, normal facial sensation and symmetrical facial movements. Cranial
nerve VIII, hearing is intact, although decreased bilaterally right worse than
left. Cranial nerves IX, X, and XII, tongue protrudes midline and palate
elevates symmetrically. Cranial nerve XI, strong and symmetrical shoulder
shrugs against resistance. Cardiac, regular rate and rhythm. Chest and lungs
are clear bilaterally. Skin is warm and dry. Normal turgor and texture. No
rashes or lesions are noted. General musculoskeletal exam reveals no gross
deformity, fasciculations, and atrophy. Peripheral vascular, no cyanosis,
clubbing, or edema. She does have some tremoring of her bilateral upper arms
as she said. Strength testing reveals difficulty when testing due to the fact
that the patient does have a lot of pain, but she seems to be pretty equal in
the bilateral upper extremities with no obvious weakness noted. She is about
4+/5 in the deltoids, biceps, triceps, wrist flexors, wrist extensors, dorsal
interossei, and grip strength.

It is much more painful for her on the left. Deep tendon reflexes are 2+
bilaterally only at biceps, triceps, and brachioradialis, knees, and ankles.
No ankle clonus is elicited. Hoffmann's is negative bilaterally. Sensation is
intact. She ambulates with slow short steps. No spastic gait is noted. She has
appropriate station and gait with no assisted devices, although she states
that she is supposed to be using a cane. She does not bring one in with her
today.

FINDINGS: Patient brings in cervical spine x-rays and she has had an MRI
taken but does not bring that in with her today. She will obtain that and x
rays, which showed at cervical plate C3, C4, C5, C6, and C7 anteriorly with
some lifting with the most lifted area at the C3 level. No fractures are
noted.

ASSESSMENT: Cervicalgia, cervical radiculopathy, and difficulty swallowing
status post cervical fusion C3 through C7 with lifting of the plate.

PLAN: We went ahead and obtained an EKG in the office today, which
demonstrated normal sinus rhythm. She went ahead and obtained her x-rays and
will pick her MRI and return to the office for surgical consultation with Dr.
L first available. She would like the plate removed, so that she can eat and
drink better, so that she can proceed with her shoulder surgery. All questions
and concerns were addressed with her. Warning signs and symptoms were gone
over with her. If she should have any further questions, concerns, or
complications, she will contact our office immediately; otherwise, we will see
her as scheduled. I am quite worried about the pain that she is having in her
arms, so I would like to see the MRI as well. Case was reviewed and discussed
with Dr. L.