

Thank you very much for asking me to see this very interesting and pleasant
woman for neurological evaluation with regards to a diagnosis of multiple
sclerosis. She is present in the company of her husband.

As you know, the patient is a 50-year-old right-handed Caucasian female, who
works as an independent contractor and as a human resources consultant.

Her neurological history first begins in December of 1987, when she had a
rather sudden onset of slurred speech and the hesitancy when she started to
walk. She had HMO insurance at that time and saw a neurologist, whose name she
does not recall. She thinks that she underwent MRI scan of the brain and
possibly visual evoked response and brainstem auditory evoked response tests.
She was told that all the tests were normal and no diagnosis was made.

The slurred speech resolved after a few weeks, but her gait hesitancy
persisted for a number of years and then finally partially improved. She also
began to note that she would fatigue after very prolonged walking.

In about 1993, she developed bladder urgency and frequency along with some
nocturia. She saw a urologist and underwent urodynamic testing. She was
diagnosed as having "overactive bladder", but the cause of this was never
determined. She was treated with medications, possibly Ditropan, without much
benefit. She also developed a dry mouth from the medication and so she
discontinued it.

Also in about 1993, she began to note an uncomfortable "stiffness" in her feet
and slight swelling of the ankles. Apparently, the swelling was not visible by
others. She saw multiple physicians and was told that it was "not arthritis",
but no definite diagnosis was ever established. She saw at least two
rheumatologists on several occasions and blood tests were all normal. No
clear-cut diagnosis was ever made and the patient simply learned to live with
these symptoms.

However, over time she noted that the symptoms in her legs seemed to worsen
somewhat. She states from time-to-time she could "barely walk". She felt as if
her balance is impaired and she felt as if she were "walking on stilts". She
tried arch supports from a podiatrist without any benefit. She began to tire
more easily when walking.

In 2002 she was seen by a podiatrist, who noticed an abnormal gait and
recommended that she see a neurologist.

In the fall of 2002, she was seen by Dr. X. He ordered an MRI scan of her
brain and lumbar spine. He also did some sort of nerve testing and possibly
visual evoked response testing. After reviewing everything, he diagnosed
multiple sclerosis. However, prior to starting her on immunomodulatory
therapy, he referred her for a second opinion to Dr. Y, in January of 2003.
Dr. Y confirmed the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis.

The patient then returned to Dr. X and was started on Avonex. She continued on
it for about six months. However, it made her feel much more stiff and delayed
and so she finally stopped it. She also recalled being tried on baclofen by
Dr. X, but again it did not benefit her and made her feel slightly dizzy. So,
she discontinued it also.

At that point in time, she decided to try a program of "good nutrition,
vitamin supplements, and fish oil".

In December 2004 and extending up to February 2005, she began to note
progressively more severe swelling and stiffness in the distal lower
extremities. She began to have to use a cane. She was seen in neurological
consultation by Dr. Z. She was treated with a Medrol Dosepak. Her spasticity
and swelling seemed to improve dramatically. However, within about two weeks
symptoms were back to baseline.

She was then treated with intravenous Solu-Medrol 500 mg daily for five days
followed by a prednisone or Medrol taper (July 2005). This seemed to be less
helpful than the oral steroids, but was partially beneficial. However, it wore
off once again.

A repeat MRI scan of the brain in April 2005 was said to "look better". She
was started on Zanaflex for her lower extremity spasticity without benefit.

Finally six days ago, she was restarted on oral prednisone 10 mg tablets. She
takes one-half tablet daily and this again has seemed to reduce the swelling
and stiffness in her legs. She continues on the prednisone in the same dosage
for relief of the spasticity.

She has not been on any other immunomodulatory agents.

The patient does note some complaints of mild heat sensitivity and mild easy
fatigability. There is no history of diplopia, dysarthria, aphasia, focal
weakness, numbness, paresthesias, cognitive dysfunction, or memory
dysfunction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Essentially noncontributory.

ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to LOBSTER and VICODIN. She feels that
she is probably allergic to IODINE.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke. She takes one glass of wine per day.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: She has not had any prior surgeries. Her general
health has been excellent except for the above-indicated problems.

REVIEW OF OUTSIDE RADIOLOGICAL STUDIES: The patient brought with her today
MRI scans of the brain, thoracic spine, and lumbosacral spine performed on
11/14/02 on a 1.5-Tesla magnet. There are numerous T2 hyperintense lesions in
the periventricular and subcortical white matter of the brain and at least one
lesion is in the corpus callosum. There appear to be Dawson 's fingers. The
MRI of the thoracic and lumbosacral spines did not reveal any significant
abnormalities.

Also available are the MRI scans of the brain, cervical spine, thoracic spine,
and lumbosacral spine performed on a 0.35-Tesla magnet on 04/22/05. The MRI of
the brain shows that one of the prior lesions has resolved and there appear to
be one or two more lesions.

However, the quality of the newer scan is only 0.35-Tesla and is suboptimal.
Visualization of the cord is also suboptimal, but there are no clear-cut
extraaxial or complexities of the spinal cord. It is difficult to be certain
that there are no intra-axial lesions, but I could not clearly see one.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  
Vital signs: Blood pressure 151/88, pulse 92, temperature 99.5ÂºF, and weight
124 lb (dressed).  
General: Well-developed, well-nourished female in no acute distress.  
Head: Normocephalic, without evidence of trauma or bruits.  
Neck: Supple, with full range of motion. No spasm or tenderness. Carotid
pulsations are of normal volume and contour bilaterally without bruits. No
thyromegaly or adenopathy.  
Extremities: No clubbing, cyanosis, edema, or deformity. Range of motion full
throughout.

NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:  
Mental Status: Awake, alert, oriented to time, place, and person; appropriate.
Recent and remote memory intact. No evidence of right-left confusion, finger
agnosia, dysnomia or aphasia.

CRANIAL NERVES :  
II: Visual fields full to confrontation. Fundi benign.  
III, IV, VI: Extraocular movements full throughout, without nystagmus. No
ptosis. Pupils equal, round and react briskly to light and accommodation.  
V: Normal sensation to light touch and pinprick bilaterally. Corneal reflexes
equal bilaterally. Motor function normal.  
VII: No facial asymmetry.  
VIII: Hears finger rub bilaterally. Weber and Rinne tests normal.  
IX & X: Palate elevates symmetrically bilaterally with phonation. Gag reflex
equal bilaterally.  
XI: Sternocleidomastoid and upper trapezius normal tone, bulk and strength
bilaterally.  
XII: Tongue midline without atrophy or fasciculations. Rapid alternating
movements normal. No dysarthria.

Motor: Tone, bulk, and strength are normal in both upper extremities. In the
lower extremities, there is moderate spasticity on the right and moderately
severe spasticity on the left. There are bilateral Achilles' contractures more
so on the left than the right and also a slight left knee flexion contracture.

Strength in the lower extremities is rated as follows on a 5-point scale
(right/left): Iliopsoas 4+/5-, quadriceps 5-/5-, tibialis anterior 4+/4+, and
gastrocnemius 5/5. There are no tremors, fasciculations or abnormal
involuntary movements.

Reflexes (right/left): Biceps 3/3, triceps 3/3, brachioradialis 3/3, knee jerk
4/4, and ankle jerk 4/0. Plantar responses are extensor bilaterally. No
pathological reflexes.

Coordination: Finger-nose-finger testing and rapid alternating movements
appear to be normal in both upper extremities. The lower extremities could not
be adequately tested because of spasticity and weakness.

Gait: The patient has a spastic and slightly broad based gait. She is able to
walk without support. After walking for a period of time, she is finally able
to get her left foot down flat, but tends to walk on the left toes.

Station: Romberg testing with the eyes open is normal. With the eyes closed,
there is slight unsteadiness and she actually fell on one occasion, but was
able to catch herself.

Sensation: Intact to pinprick, light touch, vibration and position sense
throughout. Normal stereognosis, graphesthesia, and double simultaneous
stimulation

DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSION: Multiple sclerosis, ? secondary progressive versus
relapsing/remitting.

CASE DISCUSSION: Thank you once again for allowing me to participate in
the care of this very interesting lady. Based on review of her history and her
current MRI scans, she seems to suffer from multiple sclerosis. She indicated
that there was a slow progression of her disease from December 2004 to
February 2005 and perhaps beyond that. She also indicated that she has some
improvement with oral steroids and to a lesser extent with IV steroids.
However, she keeps slipping back. Overall however, she thinks that she is
better now than she was several months ago suggesting that this may have been
a slow exacerbation rather than actual progression of her MS.

At this point in time, she appears to be confusing symptom treatment with
treatment of her multiple sclerosis. Steroids can relieve spasticity in
selected patients. However, they are not good long-term choices because of the
obvious side effects that we see with long-term use of steroids. So, although
she has benefit from the current prednisone dosage, I feel it would be more
appropriate to try and find something else to help her with her spasticity.
She is unable to tolerate Zanaflex and baclofen because of sedation.

I have recommended a trial of Neurontin beginning at 100 mg b.i.d. or t.i.d.
and gradually increasing as needed up to 300 mg b.i.d. or t.i.d. Additional
increases may be necessary depending on how she does with these lower doses.
Some patients may take as high as 1000-1500 mg three to four times daily. If
the Neurontin cannot be tolerated or it does not bring about any relief of her
spasticity, I would consider Klonopin 0.25 mg-1 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d. or Valium
5-10 mg t.i.d. or q.i.d. If these are not helpful or if there are intolerable
side effects, she should be considered for baclofen pump.

I spent a lot of time discussing with her baclofen pump, as she was unfamiliar
with it, although she has initially and understandably opposed to this
treatment, she may well require this treatment in the future in order to allow
her to ambulate adequately. With the baclofen pump in place, the patient
should have good relief of spasticity and be able to exercise her legs
strongly.

It is not clear to me whether she is actually having secondary progressive MS
or relapsing/remitting MS. I feel it would be appropriate to start her on
immunomodulatory therapy. Since interferon made her spasticity worse, I would
recommend a trial of Copaxone.

I would also obtain an annual MRI scan of the brain; however, this should be
accomplished with a high-field strength magnet (1.5-Tesla or greater).

If she has worsening of her clinical condition or should her MRI show
continued worsening, I would recommend consideration of adding methotrexate or
CellCept to her regimen. She may also be a candidate for Tysabri if it returns
to the market place in the next few months.

She is currently not much troubled by her bladder symptoms and so I do not
think she needs any particular treatment for this problem currently. However,
should her symptoms worsen in the future, urological consultation by a
physician familiar with neurogenic bladder would be helpful.

Finally, I feel that she will benefit from some physical therapy. I have
recommended physical therapy evaluation and treatment three times weekly for
six weeks.

The patient currently has HMO insurance and I recommended that she followup
here on an as needed basis. She should followup with you for her regularly
scheduled medical appointments.

The patient indicates that she may be moving to Tulsa, Oklahoma in the near
future and I gave her the names of two MS physicians in Dallas, which is
apparently only about a two-hour ride away.

Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions about her case.