

This is a middle-aged female with two month history of low back pain and leg
pain.

FINDINGS:  
Axial scans were performed from L1 to S2 and reformatted images were obtained
in the sagittal and coronal planes.

Preliminary scout film demonstrates anterior end plate spondylosis at T11-12
and T12-L1.

L1-2: There is normal disc height, anterior end plate spondylosis, very
minimal vacuum change with no posterior annular disc bulging or protrusion.
Normal central canal, intervertebral neural foramina and facet joints (image
#4).

L2-3: There is mild decreased disc height, anterior end plate spondylosis,
circumferential disc protrusion measuring 4.6mm (AP) and right extraforaminal
osteophyte disc complex. There is mild non-compressive right neural foraminal
narrowing, minimal facet arthrosis, normal central canal and left neural
foramen (image #13).

L3-4: There is normal disc height, anterior end plate spondylosis, and
circumferential non-compressive annular disc bulging. The disc bulging
flattens the ventral thecal sac and there is minimal non-compressive right
neural foraminal narrowing, minimal to mild facet arthrosis with vacuum change
on the right, normal central canal and left neural foramen (image #25).

L4-5: There is normal disc height, minimal anterior end plate spondylosis, and
posterior non-compressive annular disc bulging. There is minimal narrowing of
the lateral recesses of L5, mild to moderate facet arthrosis greater on the
right, normal central canal and intervertebral neural foramina (image #35).

L5-S1: There is severe loss of disc height with vacuum change,
spondylolisthesis with 6.9mm of anterolisthesis of L5 with no disc protrusion.
There is mild to moderate neural foraminal stenosis with possible neural
impingement greater on the right with elongation of the neural foramina, mild
facet arthrosis, and moderate degenerative change at the level of the pars
interarticularis defect. Normal central canal (image #39, 40, 42).

There is no significant degenerative change at the SI joints.

There is moderate arteriosclerotic calcifications in the abdominal aorta and
proximal common iliac arteries.

IMPRESSION:  
T11-12, T12-L1 anterior end plate spondylosis.

L1-2 anterior end plate spondylosis, and very minimal vacuum change within the
disc space.

L2-3 loss of disc height, anterior end plate spondylosis, circumferential disc
protrusion, right extraforaminal osteophyte disc complex, non-displaced right
neural foraminal narrowing, and facet arthrosis.

L3-4 anterior end plate spondylosis, circumferential non-compressive annular
disc bulging, facet arthrosis, with vacuum change on the right and non-
compressive right neural foraminal narrowing.

L4-5 anterior end plate spondylosis, posterior annular disc bulging, facet
arthrosis and narrowing of the lateral recesses of L5.

L5-S1 Grade I spondylolisthesis, advanced degenerative disc disease with
vacuum change, neural foraminal stenosis possibly impinging exiting L5 nerve
roots, degenerative change at the level of the pars interarticularis defect
and facet joints.

Arteriosclerotic vascular calcifications.