

The patient is a 29-year-old, Caucasian, para 0, 40 weeks' pregnant who
presented with contractions. Prenatal care has been in my office since the
first trimester. Ultrasounds have been consistent with menstrual history.
Factors identified for consideration during prenatal care included maternal
history of Gilbert's syndrome.

The patient presented in the early morning hours of February 12, 2007, with
contractions. The patient was found to be in false versus early labor and
managed as an outpatient. The patient returned to labor and delivery
approximately 12 hours later with regular painful contractions. There was
minimal cervical dilation, but 80% effacement by nurse examination. The
patient was admitted. Expected management was utilized initially. Stadol was
used for analgesia. Examination did not reveal vulvar lesions. Epidural was
administered. Membranes ruptured spontaneously. Cervical dilation progressed.
Acceleration-deceleration complexes were seen. Overall, fetal heart tones
remained reassuring during the progress of labor. The patient was allowed to
"labor down" during second stage. Early decelerations were seen as well as
acceleration-deceleration complexes. Overall, fetal heart tones were
reassuring. Good maternal pushing effort produced progressive descent.

Spontaneous controlled sterile vaginal delivery was performed without
episiotomy and accomplished without difficulty. Fetal arm was wrapped at the
level of the neck with the fetal hand and also at the level of the neck. There
was no loop or coil of cord. Infant was vigorous female sex. Oropharynx was
aggressively aspirated. Cord blood was obtained. Placenta delivered
spontaneously.

Following delivery, uterus was explored without findings of significant
tissue. Examination of the cervix did not reveal lacerations. Upper vaginal
lacerations were not seen. Multiple first-degree lacerations were present.
Specific locations included the vestibula at 5 o'clock, left labia minora with
short extension up the left sulcus, right anterior labia minora at the
vestibule, and midline of the vestibule. All mucosal lacerations were
reapproximated with interrupted simple sutures of 4-0 Vicryl with the knots
being buried. Post-approximation examination of the rectum showed smooth,
intact mucosa. Blood loss with the delivery was 400 mL.

Plans for postpartum care include routine postpartum orders. Nursing personnel
will be notified of Gilbert's syndrome.