

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Followup diabetes mellitus, type 1.

SUBJECTIVE: Patient is a 34-year-old male with significant diabetic
neuropathy. He has been off on insurance for over a year. Has been using NPH
and Regular insulin to maintain his blood sugars. States that he is deathly
afraid of having a low blood sugar due to motor vehicle accident he was in
several years ago. Reports that his blood sugar dropped too low which caused
the accident. Since this point in time, he has been unwilling to let his blood
sugars fall within a normal range, for fear of hypoglycemia. Also reports that
he regulates his blood sugars with how he feels, rarely checking his blood
sugar with a glucometer.

Reports that he has been worked up extensively at hospital and was seeing an
Endocrinologist at one time. Reports that he had some indications of kidney
damage when first diagnosed. His urine microalbumin today is 100. His last
hemoglobin A1C drawn at the end of December is 11.9. Reports that at one
point, he was on Lantus which worked well and he did not worry about his blood
sugars dropping too low. While using Lantus, he was able to get his hemoglobin
A1C down to 7. His last CMP shows an elevated alkaline phosphatase level of
168. He denies alcohol or drug use and is a non smoker. Reports he quit
drinking 3 years ago. I have discussed with patient that it would be
appropriate to do an SGGT and hepatic panel today. Patient also has a history
of gastroparesis and impotence. Patient requests Nexium and Viagra, neither of
which are covered under the Health Plan.

Patient reports that he was in a scooter accident one week ago, fell off his
scooter, hit his head. Was not wearing a helmet. Reports that he did not go to
the emergency room and had a headache for several days after this incident.
Reports that an ambulance arrived at the scene and he was told he had a scalp
laceration and to go into the emergency room. Patient did not comply. Reports
that the headache has resolved. Denies any dizziness, nausea, vomiting, or
other neurological abnormalities.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: WD, WN. Slender, 34-year-old white male. VITAL
SIGNS: Blood sugar 145, blood pressure 120/88, heart rate 104, respirations
16. Microalbumin 100. SKIN: There appears to be 2 skin lacerations on the left
parietal region of the scalp, each approximately 1 inch long. No signs of
infection. Wound is closed with new granulation tissue. Appears to be healing
well. HEENT: Normocephalic. PERRLA. EOMI. TMs pearly gray with landmarks
present. Nares patent. Throat with no redness or swelling. Nontender sinuses.
NECK: Supple. Full ROM. No LAD. CARDIAC: RRR. No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
RESPIRATORY: CTA. ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender. No HSM and no masses. NEURO:
Significant for lower extremity numbness throughout. Microfilament test shows
more than 3 regions without sensation bilaterally. Bottoms of feet appear
calloused and dry. Skin is intact. There is also a small contusion on right
shin which appears to be healing, less than 1/2 inch in length and 1 cm in
diameter. No signs of infection at this time and appears to be healing.
Cranial nerves 2-12 grossly nonfocal. Cerebellar function intact demonstrated
through RAM.

ASSESSMENT:  
1. Diabetes mellitus, type 1, poorly controlled.  
2. Significant diabetic neuropathy with positive microalbuminuria.  
3. Scalp laceration, secondary to motor vehicle accident, symptoms resolving.  
4. Elevated Alk Phos, etiology unclear.

PLAN:  
1. Diabetes mellitus type 1: We will follow up the elevated alkaline
phosphatase with an SGGT and a hepatic function panel. The positive
microalbumin is 100 today. He will be placed on a low dose Ace Inhibitor. I
will put in a Prior Authorization for Lantus. I have also asked the patient to
keep a log of his blood sugars for 2 weeks. Patient agrees to this. We may
need to put in a referral to Endocrinology to get him stabilized. Prescription
given for Prilosec OTC for GERD symptoms.  
2. Followup scooter accident. Lacerations on scalp and shin appear to be
healing. Discussed with patient if there are any signs of heat, swelling,
infection to return to clinic. It is extremely important for him to watch
these areas as he does not have feeling in the majority of his lower body.