

Chief Complaint: coughing up blood and severe joint pain.

History of Present Illness: The patient is a 37 year old African American
woman with history of chronic allergic rhinitis who presents to an outpatient
clinic with severe pain in multiple joints and hemoptysis for 1 day. The
patient was at her baseline state of health until 2 months prior to admission
when her usual symptoms of allergic rhinitis worsened. In addition to
increased nasal congestion and drainage, she also began having generalized
fatigue, malaise, and migratory arthralgias involving bilateral wrists,
shoulders, elbows, knees, ankles, and finger joints. She also had intermittent
episodes of swollen fingers that prevented her from making a fist. Patient
denied recent flu-like illness, fever, chills, myalgias, or night sweats. Four
weeks after the onset of arthralgias patient developed severe bilateral eye
dryness and redness without any discharge. She was evaluated by an
ophthalmologist and diagnosed with conjunctivitis. She was given eye drops
that did not relieve her eye symptoms. Two weeks prior to admission patient
noted the onset of rust colored urine. No bright red blood or clots in the
urine. She denied having dysuria, decreased urine output, abdominal pain,
flank pain, or nausea/vomiting. Patient went to a community ER, and had a CT
Scan of the abdomen that was negative for kidney stones. She was discharged
from the ER with Bactrim for possible UTI. During the next week patient had
progressively worsening arthralgias to the point where she could hardly walk.
On the day of admission, she developed a cough productive of bright red blood
associated with shortness of breath and nausea, but no chest pain or
dizziness. This prompted the patient to go see her primary care physician.
After being seen in clinic, she was transferred to St. Luke