

S: ABC is in today for a followup of her atrial fibrillation. They have
misplaced the Cardizem. She is not on this and her heart rate is up just a
little bit today. She does complain of feeling dizziness, some vertigo, some
lightheadedness, and has attributed this to the Coumadin therapy. She is very
adamant that she wants to stop the Coumadin. She is tired of blood draws. We
have had a difficult time getting her regulated. No chest pains. No shortness
of breath. She is moving around a little bit better. Her arm does not hurt
her. Her back pain is improving as well.

O: Vital signs as per chart. Respirations 15. Exam: Nontoxic. No acute
distress. Alert and oriented. HEENT: TMs are clear bilaterally without
erythema or bulging. Clear external canals. Clear tympanic. Conjunctivae are
clear. Clear nasal mucosa. Clear oropharynx with moist mucous membranes. NECK
is soft and supple. LUNGS are clear to auscultation. HEART is irregularly
irregular, mildly tachycardic. ABDOMEN is soft and nontender. EXTREMITIES: No
cyanosis, no clubbing, no edema.

EKG shows atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 104.

A:  
1. Atrial fibrillation.  
2. Dizziness.

P: Back on the Cardizem, which they have at home. If they cannot find it,
they will call us and we will call this out to Skagway. I did talk to her and
her husband at length regarding atrial fibrillation and Coumadin and the risks
for stroke without the Coumadin. She states that she is  "I am willing to take
that risk." If she does not want to be on the Coumadin anymore, then I would
recommend at least taking a baby aspirin a day. Both her and her husband
understand this very clearly that she is at higher risk for having a stroke
off of the Coumadin and she wishes to stay off this, therefore we do not need
a pro-time today. We will have her stop her Coumadin and have her followup in
one week. She will need the cast removed and the x-ray of her left wrist at
that visit in hopes that we can place her in a short-arm cast over the next
two weeks. Followup sooner if needed.