

Chief Complaint: Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, altered mental
status.

History of Present Illness: 55 yo WM with reactive airways disease,
allergic rhinitis who was in his usual state of health until he underwent a
dental extraction with administration of cephalexin 1 week prior to admission.
Approximately one day after the dental procedure, he began having nausea, and
abdominal pain along with fatigue. The abdominal pain was described as
pressure-like and was located in the epigastrium and periumbilical regions. He
initially attributed the symptoms to a side effect of the antibiotic he was
taking. However, with worsening of his symptoms, he presented to the ER 5 days
after dental extraction.

At that time his vitals were T 99.9 Â° HR 115 RR 18 BP 182/101. His exam was
notable for mild tenderness in the central abdomen. Laboratory evaluation was
notable for WBC 15.6, Hgb 13.1, Plt 189, 16% bands, 68% PMNs. Na 127, K4.7, Cl
88, CO2 29, BUN 19, Cr 1.5, Glucose 155, Ca 9.6, alk phos 125, t bili 0.7, ALT
29, nl amylase and lipase. UA with 100 protein, lg blood, 53 RBC, 2 WBC. Plain
films done at that time revealed dilation of small bowel loops in mid-abdomen
up to 3.5cm in diameter, thought to be most consistent with a paralytic ileus.
The patient was discharged home with diagnosis of medication-induced
gastroenteritis vs. UTI. He was instructed to stop his current antibiotic but
start Levaquin, and he was given Vicodin, and phenergan for symptomatic
relief.

Over the next 2 days, the patient began having fevers, non-bloody emesis,
diarrhea, and confusion in addition to his persistent nausea, and abdominal
pain. On the night of presentation, the patient was found by a cousin in his
bathroom lethargic and disoriented. EMS was called and patient was taken to
the ER. In the ER, the pt was diaphoretic, unable to answer questions
appropriately, hypotensive, and febrile, with some response of bp to multiple
IVF boluses (4L). He received acetaminophen, and ceftriaxone 2g IV after blood
cultures were obtained and an LP was performed in the ER. He was then admitted
to the ICU for further evaluation and management.

Past Medical History:

Asthma

Allergic Rhinitis

Medications:

loratadine

beclomethasone nasal

fluticasone/salmeterol inhaled

Montelukast

cephalexin

hydrocodone

Allergies: PCN, but has tolerated cephalosporins in the past.

Social History: No tobacco use, occasional EtOH, no known drug use, works
as a real estate agent.

Family History: HTN, father with SLE, uncle with Addison