

PROCEDURE PERFORMED  
1. Placement of a subclavian single-lumen tunneled Hickman central venous
catheter.  
2. Surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy.

OPERATION IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient,
including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the
aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and
anesthesia was administered. Next, a #18-gauge needle was used to locate the
subclavian vein. After aspiration of venous blood, a J wire was inserted
through the needle using Seldinger technique. The needle was withdrawn. The
distal tip location of the J wire was confirmed to be in adequate position
with surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy. Next, a separate stab incision was made
approximately 3 fingerbreadths below the wire exit site. A subcutaneous tunnel
was created, and the distal tip of the Hickman catheter was pulled through the
tunnel to the level of the cuff. The catheter was cut to the appropriate
length. A dilator and sheath were passed over the J wire. The dilator and J
wire were removed, and the distal tip of the Hickman catheter was threaded
through the sheath, which was simultaneously withdrawn. The catheter was
flushed and aspirated without difficulty. The distal tip was confirmed to be
in good location with surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy. A 2-0 nylon was used to
secure the cuff down to the catheter at the skin level. The skin stab site was
closed with a 4-0 Monocryl. The instrument and sponge count was correct at the
end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred
to the postanesthesia recovery area in good condition.