

Under satisfactory general anesthesia, the patient was placed in the supine
position and prepped and draped in the usual manner. A transverse inguinal
skin crease incision was made and carried down through the skin to the
external oblique aponeurosis. Hemostasis was obtained with Bovie. Care was
taken to avoid any injury to the ilioinguinal nerve. The external oblique
aponeurosis was identified and a small incision was made in the line of its
fibers and extended with scissors, avoiding any nerve injury. The spermatic
cord was dissected free of the shelving edge of the external oblique
aponeurosis and dissected free from the surrounding tissue. The hernia sac and
hydrocele were dissected free from the spermatic cord. The spermatic cord
dropped back posteriorly without any injury to the vessels or vas. The hernia
sac was divided, dissected free from the vessels going up into the internal
ring. There were no contents within it. It was twisted and suture ligated with
an interrupted suture of 3-0 silk. The hydrocele was opened and around the
testicle appendix testis was present, was cauterized at its base with good
hemostasis. The testicle was replaced back into the scrotum and felt to be in
good position, both at this time and at the end of the procedure. The incision
was then closed in layers using 3-0 Vicryl for the external oblique
aponeurosis and subcutaneous tissue, and a running subcuticular closure of 4-0
Vicryl and Steri-Strips for the skin. 0.25% Marcaine without epinephrine was
instilled below the skin for postoperative pain relief and he had a caudal
block placed by Anesthesia. He was sent to the recovery room in stable
condition.