

The patient was placed in the supine position, prepped and draped in the usual
manner. A transverse inguinal skin crease incision was made and carried down
to the external oblique aponeurosis. The testicle was isolated and found
coming out of the inguinal ring and separated from the spermatic cord. The
hernia sac which was very filmy was elevated off of the spermatic vessels,
preserving the spermatic vessels and vas without difficulty. Adequate length
was able to be achieved without causing too much tension on the spermatic
vessels. Using blunt and sharp dissection, a tunnel was made down into the
scrotum. An incision was made in the scrotal wall and a dartos pouch was
developed. A straight clamp was passed retrograde with one finger guiding the
point up into the inguinal incision. A 3-0 Prolene suture was placed through
the testicle and this was used to draw the testicle down through the scrotal
pouch outside the scrotum. The inguinal incision was closed in layers and
0.25% Marcaine was infiltrated around the incision, 3-0 chromic catgut was
used to close the incision in layers without difficulty, and the skin was
closed with interrupted sutures of 4-0 chromic catgut. The scrotal incision
was closed with interrupted sutures of 4-0 chromic catgut and a benzoin-soaked
bolster was tied to the Prolene sutures that had been placed through the
scrotal wall with separate Keith needles. At the end of the procedure
collodion was applied over the abdominal incision. He was sent to the recovery
room in stable condition.