

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral inguinal hernia.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral inguinal hernia.

PROCEDURE: Bilateral direct inguinal hernia repair utilizing PHS system
and placement of On-Q pain pump.

ANESTHESIA: General with endotracheal intubation.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was taken to the operating room and
placed supine on the operating room table. General anesthesia was administered
with endotracheal intubation and the abdomen and groins were prepped and
draped in standard, sterile surgical fashion. I did an ilioinguinal nerve
block on both sides, injecting Marcaine 1 fingerbreadth anterior and 1
fingerbreadth superior to the anterior superior iliac spine on both sides.

I began on the right side by making an incision in a skin crease 1
fingerbreadth above the pubic tubercle. I dissected down through the skin and
subcutaneous tissue and through Scarpa's fascia. I identified the external
ring and divided the external oblique up toward the anterior superior iliac
spine. I located the ilioinguinal nerve and isolated it out of the wound.

I encircled the cord structures and, dissecting out the cord structures, I did
not visualize any sac. The floor of the inguinal canal was very loose and
there was an obvious direct hernia. I cut open the floor and dissected out the
preperitoneal space so I created a preperitoneal space. I took a PHS mesh
system and took the posterior portion of the PHS mesh system and put it in
through the hole in the floor of the inguinal canal. I made sure that it sat
flat completely covering the myopectineal orifice.

I then tacked the anterior part of the PHS mesh system to the pubic tubercle,
superiorly to the internal oblique, inferiorly to the shelving edge of the
inguinal ligament. I cut a hole in the mesh and recreated the internal ring
and sewed it closed, making sure it was not too tight on the cord structures.
I tucked the extended portion of the mesh underneath the external oblique
between the external oblique and the internal oblique, thereby completing the
hernia repair.

I placed the ilioinguinal nerve back in its anatomical position. I then closed
the external obliques with a running 3-0 Vicryl. I placed on On-Q pain pump
through a separate stab incision utilizing a tear-away sheath catheter. I then
closed Scarpa's fascia, the subcutaneous tissue and skin with a running
Monocryl.  
I did the exact same procedure on the opposite side. On the left side, I cut a
skin incision in the skin crease above the pubic tubercle. I dissected down
through the skin and subcutaneous tissue. I opened up Scarpa's fascia and
identified the external ring. I opened up the external ring towards the
anterior superior iliac spine. I isolated the ilioinguinal nerve so it was not
damaged. I dissected out the cord and inspected the cord carefully. I did not
see any sac there, but there was a weak direct floor with an obvious direct
inguinal hernia.

I opened the floor over this direct inguinal hernia. I cleared out the
preperitoneal space and then placed the posterior portion of the PHS mesh
system in place and made it lay out flat in order to cover the myopectineal
orifice. I took the anterior portion of the mesh and tacked it to the pubic
tubercle. I tacked the superior portion to the internal oblique, inferior
portion to the shelving edge of the inguinal ligament. I cut a hole in order
to incorporate the cord structures and sewed it back together. I made sure
this was not too tight.

I then tucked the extended portion of the mesh underneath the external oblique
between the external oblique and the internal oblique. I returned the
ilioinguinal nerve to its original position. I closed the external oblique
with a running 3-0 Vicryl. I placed an On-Q pain pump through a separate stab
incision and had the catheter thread right into the wound cavity. I then
closed the Scarpa's fascia with interrupted 3-0 Vicryl suture. I closed the
subcutaneous tissue with interrupted 3-0 Vicryl suture and closed the skin
with running Monocryl.

Sponge, instrument and needle counts were correct at the end of the case. The
patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications.