

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Cholelithiasis; possible choledocholithiasis.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Cholelithiasis.

TITLE OF PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic cholecystectomy and intraoperative
cholangiogram.

ANESTHESIA: General with endotracheal intubation.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was taken to the operating room and
placed supine upon the operating room table. General anesthesia was
administered with endotracheal intubation. The abdomen was prepped and draped
in standard sterile surgical fashion. Marcaine was injected through the
umbilicus. A small incision was made in the umbilicus, and a Veress needle was
introduced into the abdomen. CO2 insufflation was done to a maximum pressure
of 15 mmHg, and a 12-mm VersaStep port was placed into the umbilicus. I then
placed a 5-mm port in the midline just subxiphoid, another 5-mm port in the
midclavicular line just subcostal, and another 5-mm port in the mid-axillary
line just subcostal. I grasped the fundus of the gallbladder and pulled it
superiorly over the liver. The gallbladder was inflamed and did appear to have
acute cholecystitis. There were some adhesions from the omentum, which were
taken down. I grabbed the infundibulum of the gallbladder and pulled it
inferolaterally, and thereby splayed out the cystic duct. The cystic duct was
bluntly dissected. I put a clip distally against the gallbladder. I then cut a
small hole in the cystic duct. I passed an Arrow catheter into the cystic duct
and inflated the balloon. I injected dye under fluoroscopy, and I could feel
the hepatic duct and the common bile duct. There were no stones in the common
bile duct. The dye easily passed into the intestine. I then removed the Arrow
catheter. I placed 2 clips proximally on the cystic duct, and I put an extra
stitch through the duct at the very end with a Vicryl stitch to be sure that
it was secured. I put 2 clips on the cystic artery, and 1 distally, and it was
divided. I then took the gallbladder off the hepatic fossa using
electrocautery. I placed it in an Endocatch bag and removed it through the
umbilicus. I copiously irrigated out the abdomen. I then closed the fascia of
the umbilicus with interrupted 0 Vicryl suture. I closed the skin of all
incisions with running Monocryl. Sponge, instrument and needle counts were
correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well
without any complications.