

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity.

PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, antecolic, antegastric
with 25-mm EEA anastamosis, esophagogastroduodenoscopy.

ANESTHESIA: General with endotracheal intubation.

INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 50-year-old male who has been
overweight for many years and has tried multiple different weight loss diets
and programs. The patient has now begun to have comorbidities related to the
obesity. The patient has attended our bariatric seminar and met with our
dietician and psychologist. The patient has read through our comprehensive
handout and understands the risks and benefits of bypass surgery as evidenced
by the signing of our consent form.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The risks and benefits were explained to the patient.
Consent was obtained. The patient was taken to the operating room and placed
supine on the operating room table. General anesthesia was administered with
endotracheal intubation. A Foley catheter was placed for bladder
decompression. All pressure points were carefully padded, and sequential
compression devices were placed on the legs. The abdomen was prepped and
draped in standard, sterile, surgical fashion. Marcaine was injected into the
umbilicus.

A small incision was made, and a Veress needle was introduced into the
abdomen. CO2 insufflation was done to a maximum pressure of 15 mmHg. Then a
12-mm VersaStep port was placed in the umbilicus. Laparoscopic examination
showed no injuries from entry. I then placed a 5-mm port in the left side just
subcostal and just anterior to the mid-axillary line. A few centimeters below
and medial to that, I placed a 15-mm port. On the right side just subcostal
and anterior to the mid-axillary line, I placed another 5-mm port. Another
5-mm port was placed just to the right of the midline and just subxiphoid, and
a few centimeters below that, a 12-mm VersaStep port was placed.

We began by identifying the colon and lifting the transverse colon up and
thereby identifying the ligament of Treitz. I ran the small bowel down
approximately 40 cm. I divided the small bowel with a white load GIA stapler.
I then divided across the mesentery utilizing a LigaSure device all the way
down to its base. I then ran the distal bowel down 100 cm, and at 100 cm I
made a hole in the Roux limb and a hole in the duodenogastric limb. I placed a
45 white load stapler into the abdomen and put 1 side of the white load
stapler in the duodenogastric limb and 1 side in the Roux limb. I fired the
stapler, thereby creating a side-to-side anastomosis. I reapproximated the
defect with interrupted Surgidac sutures and then stapled across it with a
white load GIA stapler.

I then did a Brolin anti-obstruction stitch with an interrupted Surgidac
suture. I then closed the mesenteric defect with interrupted Surgidac sutures.
I then divided the omentum all the way down to the transverse colon in order
to create a pathway to place the Roux limb antecolic, antegastric.

I then placed the patient in reverse Trendelenburg position and placed a liver
retractor. I first identified the angle of His and made sure that it was
clearly visible. I then had Anesthesia drop a balloon into the stomach and
blow it up to 30 cc. Below that, I then cleared the mesentery at the lesser
curve and got behind the stomach into the lesser space. I then fired a blue
load stapler transversely across the stomach, after checking with Anesthesia
that everything had been removed from the stomach. I then made a hole into the
stomach at the mid portion of the superior staple line. I then made an
incision on the greater curve and made a gastrotomy. I then brought a 25 EEA
anvil with a stitch attached to it into the abdominal cavity. I placed an
angulating grasper into the gastrotomy above my staple line and had it come
out through the gastrotomy at the greater curve. I grabbed the anvil and
pulled it through the greater curve gastrotomy and had the stem come out
through the superior staple line so that the stem was now coming out through
the base of my soon-to-be gastric pouch.

I then completed my pouch by firing 60 blue loads with SeamGuard cephalad up
and through the angle of His. After creating the pouch, I then closed the
gastrotomy on the greater curve by firing across it with blue load stapler.
Once this had been done, I brought up the Roux limb. I cut a hole in the
antimesenteric portion of the Roux limb and passed a 25 EEA stapler into the
abdomen through the 15-mm port site and had it go in through the enterotomy. I
had a spike come out on the antimesenteric portion of the small bowel. I
removed the spike and joined the stapler with the anvil and fired the stapler,
thereby creating the anastomosis, and then removed the EEA stapler. I divided
the end of the redundant portion of the Roux limb that had the enterotomy
utilizing a white load stapler and removed that through the 15-mm port site. I
then had a pretty straight shot from the pouch into the small bowel. I put
additional 3-0 Vicryl sutures in the corners in order to take off any tension
and further secure the wound. I then put a bowel clamp on the bowel. I went
above and performed an esophagogastroduodenoscopy.

I placed a scope into the mouth and down through the esophagus with ease. I
passed it into the stomach pouch. I distended up the pouch with air. There was
no air leak seen laparoscopically. I was able to pass the scope easily across
the anastomosis. No bleeding was seen. I then withdrew the scope and scrubbed
back into the case. I closed the 15-mm port site with interrupted 0 Vicryl
suture utilizing Carter-Thomason. I then put a 10-flat Jackson-Pratt through
the left upper quadrant incision and sutured that in place using nylon.

I then closed the skin of all incisions with a running Monocryl. Prior to
closing, I irrigated the 15-mm port site with dilute Betadine. Sponge,
instrument, and needle counts were correct at the end of the case. The patient
tolerated the procedure well without any complications.