

PROCEDURE: : After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought
to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table. General
endotracheal anesthesia was induced. The patient was then prepped and draped
in the usual sterile fashion. An #11 blade scalpel was used to make a small
infraumbilical skin incision in the midline. The fascia was elevated between
two Ochsner clamps and then incised. A figure-of-eight stitch of 2-0 Vicryl
was placed through the fascial edges. The 11-mm port without the trocar
engaged was then placed into the abdomen. A pneumoperitoneum was established.
After an adequate pneumoperitoneum had been established, the laparoscope was
inserted. Three additional ports were placed all under direct vision. An 11-mm
port was placed in the epigastric area. Two 5-mm ports were placed in the
right upper quadrant. The patient was placed in reverse Trendelenburg position
and slightly rotated to the left. The fundus of the gallbladder was retracted
superiorly and laterally. The infundibulum was retracted inferiorly and
laterally. Electrocautery was used to carefully begin dissection of the
peritoneum down around the base of the gallbladder. The triangle of Calot was
carefully opened up. The cystic duct was identified heading up into the base
of the gallbladder. The cystic artery was also identified within the triangle
of Calot. After the triangle of Calot had been carefully dissected, a clip was
then placed high up on the cystic duct near its junction with the gallbladder.
The cystic artery was clipped twice proximally and once distally. Scissors
were then introduced and used to make a small ductotomy in the cystic duct,
and the cystic artery was divided. An intraoperative cholangiogram was
obtained. This revealed good flow through the cystic duct and into the common
bile duct. There was good flow into the duodenum without any filling defects.
The hepatic radicals were clearly visualized. The cholangiocatheter was
removed, and two clips were then placed distal to the ductotomy on the cystic
duct. The cystic duct was then divided using scissors. The gallbladder was
then removed up away from the liver bed using electrocautery. The gallbladder
was easily removed through the epigastric port site. The liver bed was then
irrigated and suctioned. All dissection areas were inspected. They were
hemostatic. There was not any bile leakage. All clips were in place. The right
gutter up over the edge of the liver was likewise irrigated and suctioned
until dry. All ports were then removed under direct vision. The abdominal
cavity was allowed to deflate. The fascia at the epigastric port site was
closed with a stitch of 2-0 Vicryl. The fascia at the umbilical port was
closed by tying the previously placed stitch. All skin incisions were then
closed with subcuticular sutures of 4-0 Monocryl and 0.25% Marcaine with
epinephrine was infiltrated into all port sites. The patient tolerated the
procedure well. The patient is currently being aroused from general
endotracheal anesthesia. I was present during the entire case.