

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Lateral epicondylitis.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Lateral epicondylitis.

OPERATIONS PERFORMED: Lateral release with lengthening of the ECRB tendon.

ANESTHESIA: General.

TOURNIQUET TIME: minutes.

DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: With the patient under adequate anesthesia, the
upper extremity was prepped and draped in a sterile manner. The arm was
exsanguinated and the tourniquet elevated to 290 mm/Hg. An incision was made
over the lateral aspect of the right elbow anterior to lateral epicondyle and
centered on the lateral epicondyle. Blunt dissection exposed the antebrachial
fascia. The interval between the extensor carpi radialis longus and anterior
edge of the extensor aponeurosis was identified. The antebrachial fascia was
then incised and further blunt dissection developed the interval between ECRL
and extensor aponeurosis from the lateral epicondyle distal to the joint line.
The ECRL was then released by sharp dissection and retracted anterior to
expose the origin of the extensor carpi radialis brevis. Medial dissection
further delineated the origin of the ECRB. The origin of the ECRB was then
further inspected and gross pathological changes of grayish tissue were
identified and this friable tissue was then excised. The joint capsule was
then incised. The radial capitellar joint was inspected and found to be
without pathological changes.

The wound was then copiously irrigated. The joint capsule was closed with
interrupted 3-0 Vicryl sutures. The ECRB was then lengthened and then sutured
to the undersurface of the ECRL using 3-0 Vicryl sutures. The antebrachial
fascia was closed with a running 3-0 Vicryl suture with a Krackow technique.
The wound was then infiltrated with 10 cc of .025% Marcaine. The skin was
closed in a layered fashion. Sterile dressings were applied. The tourniquet
was deflated. The patient was awakened from anesthesia and returned to the
recovery room in satisfactory procedure having tolerated the procedure well.