

The patient is a 64-year-old sales woman who is referred to our office for
severe chronic back pain, hip pain, and pain in her knees as well as her neck.
She states that she cannot remember when it started and she has had back pain
and knee pain for years but most recently it has gotten "intolerable." She
states that she has had many problems with her neck over the years, pictures
taken in the late 1990s, but no treatment. She had headaches, which were
treated with antidepressants and Fiorinal, which helped her quite a bit. She
states that she was also married to a wife beater and suffered many episodes
of severe beatings when she was younger. She complains of back pain that
radiates around her right hip and into the anterior thigh as well as bilateral
knee pain. She states that her pain is constant. On a 1 to 10 pain scale, she
rates it between a 6 and a 10. She has tried Fiorinal, which helps with her
headaches. Currently, she is doing physical therapy for her back. She has also
seen several different chiropractors over the years. On the body image
drawing, she draws posterior neck pain, head pain, and right shoulder pain.
She also draws numbness and tingling in her right hand. She draws pain in her
back going into the right hip and down the anterior aspect of the right leg
and bilateral knee pain. She states that her back hurts her more than her
legs. When it comes to her legs, her right is worse than left. Knee pain is
worse on the left than on the right. She is unable to identify any alleviating
factors. Walking, standing, sitting, lying down, coughing, sneezing, working,
and light and heavy exercise exacerbate her pain. Bowel movements make no
difference in her pain. She describes pain as being 70% in the low back, 15%
in the right leg, 15% in right buttock, and 50% in the left knee. She states
that she can no longer bend her knee completely and her back pain is so severe
that at times she cannot move. If she bends over it feels like someone has hit
her in the back.

FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died from leukemia. Her mother died from kidney
and heart failure. She has two brothers; five sisters, one with breast cancer;
two sons; and a daughter. She describes cancer, hypertension, nervous
condition, kidney disease, high cholesterol, and depression in her family.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She is divorced. She does not have support at home. She
denies tobacco, alcohol, and illicit drug use.

ALLERGIES: Hypaque dye when she had x-rays for her kidneys.

MEDICATIONS: Prempro q.d., Levoxyl 75 mcg q.d., Lexapro 20 mg q.d.,
Fiorinal as needed, currently she is taking it three times a day, and aspirin
as needed. She also takes various supplements including multivitamin q.d.,
calcium with vitamin D b.i.d., magnesium b.i.d., Ester-C b.i.d., vitamin E
b.i.d., flax oil and fish oil b.i.d., evening primrose 1000 mg b.i.d.,
Quercetin 500 mg b.i.d., Policosanol 20 mg two a day, glucosamine chondroitin
three a day, coenzyme-Q 10 30 mg two a day, holy basil two a day, sea
vegetables two a day, and very green vegetables.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Anemia, high cholesterol, and hypothyroidism.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: In 1979, tubal ligation and three milk ducts
removed. In 1989 she had a breast biopsy and in 2007 a colonoscopy. She is G4,
P3, with no cesarean section.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: HEENT: For headaches and sore throat. Musculoskeletal:
She is right handed with joint pain, stiffness, and decreased range of motion.
Cardiac: For heart murmur. GI: Negative and noncontributory. Respiratory:
Negative and noncontributory. Urinary: Negative and noncontributory. Hem-Onc:
Negative and noncontributory. Vascular: Negative and noncontributory.
Psychiatric: Negative and noncontributory. Genital: Negative and
noncontributory. She denies any bowel or bladder dysfunction or loss of
sensation in her genital area.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She is 5 feet 2 inches tall. Current weight is 132
pounds, weight one year ago was 126 pounds. BP is 122/68. On physical exam,
patient is alert and oriented with normal mentation and appropriate speech, in
no acute distress. General, a well-developed and well-nourished female in no
acute distress. HEENT exam, head is atraumatic and normocephalic. Eyes,
sclerae are anicteric. Teeth good dentition. Cranial nerves II, III, IV, and
VI, vision is intact, visual fields are full to confrontation, EOMs full
bilaterally, and pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Cranial
nerves V and VII, normal facial sensation and symmetrical facial movement.
Cranial nerve VIII, hearing intact. Cranial nerves IX, X, and XII, tongue
protrudes midline and palate elevates symmetrically.

Cranial nerve XI, strong and symmetrical shoulder shrugs against resistance.
Cardiac, regular rate and rhythm. Chest and lungs are clear bilaterally. Skin
is warm and dry, normal turgor and texture. No rashes or lesions are noted.
General musculoskeletal exam reveals no gross deformities, fasciculations, or
atrophy. Peripheral vascular, no cyanosis, clubbing, or edema. Examination of
the low back reveals some mild paralumbar spasms. She is nontender to
palpation of her spinous processes, SI joints, and paralumbar musculature. She
does have some poking sensation to deep palpation into the left buttock where
she describes some zinging sensation. Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ bilateral
knees and ankles. No ankle clonus is elicited. Babinski, toes are downgoing.
Straight leg raising is negative bilaterally. Strength on manual exam is 5/5
and equal bilateral lower extremity. She is able to ambulate on her toes and
her heels without any difficulty. She is able to get up standing on one foot
on to the toes. She does have some difficulty getting up on to her heels when
standing on one foot. She has trouble with this on the left and right. She
complains of increased pain while doing this as well. She also has positive
Patrick/FABER on the right with pain with internal and external rotation,
negative on the left. Sensation is intact. She has good accuracy to pinprick,
dull versus sharp.

FINDINGS: The patient brings in lumbar spine MRI dated November 20, 2007,
which demonstrates degenerative disc disease throughout. At L4-L5, there is an
annular disc bulge with fissuring with facet arthrosis and ligamentum flavum
hypertrophy yielding moderate central stenosis and neuroforaminal narrowing
but the nerves do not appear to be impinged. At L5-S1, in the right
neuroforamina, there appears to be soft tissue density just lateral and
posterior to the nerve root, which may cause some displacement, but it is
unclear. This could represent a facet synovial cyst. This is lateral to the
facet. She does not have x-rays for review. She has had hip and knee x-rays
taken but does not bring them in with her.

ASSESSMENT: Low back pain, lumbar radiculopathy, degenerative disc
disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, history of anemia, high cholesterol, and
hypothyroidism.

PLAN: We discussed treatment options with this patient including:  
1 Do nothing.  
2. Conservative therapies.  
3. Surgery.

She seems to have some issues with her right hip, so I would like for her to
fax us over the report of her hip and knee x-rays. We will also order some
x-rays of her lumbar spine as well as lower extremity EMG.

At this point, the patient has not exhausted conservative measures and would
like to start with epidural steroid injections, so we will go ahead and send
her out for that. After she has gotten her second epidural injection, she will
return to the office for a followup visit to see how she is doing. All
questions and concerns were addressed. If she should have any further
questions, concerns, or complications, she will contact our office
immediately. Otherwise, we will see her as scheduled. Case was reviewed and
discussed with Dr. L.