

This is a middle-aged male with increasing memory loss and history of Lyme
disease.

FINDINGS:  
There is a large intrasellar mass lesion producing diffuse expansion of the
sella turcica. This mass lesions measures approximately 16 x 18 x 18mm
(craniocaudal x AP x mediolateral) in size. The lesion extends into the left
cavernous sinus along the inferior edge of the C3 segment of the left
cavernous carotid artery obscuring the left cranial nerves III, IV and VI. The
V1 and V2 branches however can be identified. There is intense enhancement of
this lesion following gadolinium augmentation. There is a focal central area
of nonenhancement which measures approximately 4mm in diameter. There is
right-sided deviation of the infundibulum with mild convex bowing of this mass
lesion into the suprasellar cistern, however, there is no impingement upon the
optic chiasm. There is pressure erosion of the floor of the sella turcica
bulging into the sphenoid sinus without a demonstrated cortical destruction or
invasion of the sphenoid sinus.

The lesion most likely represents a macroadenoma. The intense enhancement of
the central area of hypointense signal raises the possibility a calcification
suggesting a differential diagnosis of a late onset craniopharyngioma. The
lesion is not considered consistent with a meningioma. CT imaging would be of
benefit for exclusion of calcification.

Normal flow within the carotid and vertebrobasilar circulation and there is no
demonstrated aneurysm of the Circle of Willis.

Normal cerebral hemispheres and normal cortical gray matter and white matter
tracks. There are no white matter hyperintensities. There is normal
enhancement of the dural sinuses and cortical veins. There is no enhancing
intraaxial or extraaxial mass lesion.

Normal basal ganglia and thalami. Normal internal and external capsules.

Normal midbrain, pons and medulla and a normal brainstem cervical cord
junction.

Normal vermis and cerebellar hemispheres.

Normal calvarium. There is a 1.5cm retention cyst of the posterior wall of the
left maxillary antrum. The paranasal sinuses are normal.

Normal temporal bones.

Normal central skull base.

Normal clivus and craniovertebral junction.

IMPRESSION:  
Large intrasellar mass lesion with probable invasion of the left cavernous
sinus. See above for size, morphology and pattern of enhancement. Differential
considerations include a macroadenoma of the pituitary gland versus a
craniopharyngioma. CT imaging is recommended for assessment of possible
calcifications.

Retention cyst of the left maxillary antrum.

Normal supratentorial brainstem and posterior fossa.