

EXAM: MRI RIGHT ANKLE

CLINICAL: This is a 51 year old female who first came into the office
3/4/05 with right ankle pain. She stepped on ice the evening prior and twisted
her ankle. PF's showed no frank fracture, dislocation, or subluxations.

FINDINGS:  
Received for interpretation is an MRI examination performed on 4/28/2005.

There is a "high ankle sprain" of the distal tibiofibular syndesmotic
ligamentous complex involving the anterior tibiofibular ligament with marked
ligamentous inflammatory thickening and diffuse interstitial edema. There is
osteoarthritic spur formation at the anterior aspect of the fibula with a
small 2mm osseous structure within the markedly thickened anterior talofibular
ligament suggesting a small ligamentous osseous avulsion. The distal
tibiofibular syndesmotic ligamentous complex remains intact without a complete
rupture. There is no widening of the ankle mortis. The posterior talofibular
ligament remains intact.

There is marked ligamentous thickening of the anterior talofibular ligament of
the lateral collateral ligamentous complex suggesting the sequela of a remote
lateral ankle sprain. There is thickening of the posterior talofibular and
calcaneofibular ligaments.

There is a flat retromalleolar sulcus.

There is a full-thickness longitudinal split tear of the peroneus brevis
tendon within the retromalleolar groove. The tear extends to the level of the
inferior peroneal retinaculum. There is anterior displacement of the peroneus
longus tendon into the split peroneus tendon tear.

There is severe synovitis of the peroneus longus tendon sheath with prominent
fluid distention. The synovitis extends to the level of the inferior peroneal
retinaculum.

There is a focal area of chondral thinning of the hyaline cartilage of the
medial talar dome with a focal area of subchondral plate cancellous marrow
resorption consistent with and area of prior talar dome contusion but there is
no focal osteochondral impaction or osteochondral defect.

There is minimal fluid within the tibiotalar articulation.

There is minimal fluid within the posterior subtalar articulation with mild
anterior capsular prolapse. Normal talonavicular and calcaneocuboid
articulations. The anterior superior calcaneal process is normal.

There is mild tenosynovitis of the posterior tibialis tendon sheath but an
intrinsically normal tendon. There is an os navicularis (Type II
synchondrosis) with an intact synchondrosis and no active marrow stress
phenomenon.

Normal flexor digitorum longus tendon.

There is prominent fluid distention of the flexor hallucis longus tendon
sheath with capsular distention proximal to the posterior talar processes with
prominent fluid distention of the synovial sheath.

There is a loculated fluid collection within Kager