

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right renal mass.

POSTOP DIAGNOSIS: Right renal mass.

PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Laparoscopic right radical nephrectomy.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 100 mL.

X-RAYS: None.

SPECIMENS: Right radical nephrectomy specimen.

COMPLICATIONS: None.

ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.

DRAINS: 16-French Foley catheter per urethra.

BRIEF HISTORY: The patient is a 71-year-old woman recently diagnosed with
6.5 cm right upper pole renal mass. This is an enhancing lesion suspicious for
renal cell carcinoma versus oncocytoma. I discussed a variety of options with
her, and she opted to proceed with a laparoscopic right radical nephrectomy.
All questions were answered, and she wished to proceed with surgery as
planned.

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After acquisition of appropriate written and informed
consent and administration of perioperative antibiotics, the patient was taken
to the operating room and placed supine on the operating table. Note that,
sequential compression devices were placed on both lower extremities and were
activated per induction of anesthesia. After institution of adequate general
anesthetic via the endotracheal route, she was placed into the right anterior
flank position with the right side elevated in a roll and the right arm across
her chest. All pressure points were carefully padded, and she was securely
taped to the table to prevent shifting during the procedure. Her abdomen was
then prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion after placing a
16-French Foley catheter per urethra to gravity drainage. The abdomen was
insufflated in the right outer quadrant. Note that, the patient had had
previous surgery which complicated accesses somewhat and that she had a
previous hysterectomy. The abdomen was insufflated into the right lateral
abdomen with Veress needle to 50 mm of pressure without incident. We then
placed a 10/12 Visiport trocar approximately 7 cm lateral to the umbilicus.
Once this had entered into the peritoneal cavity without incident, the
remaining trocars were all placed. Under direct laparoscopic visualization, we
placed three additional trocars; an 11-mm screw-type trocar in the umbilicus,
a 6-mm screw-type trocar in the upper midline approximately 7 cm above the
umbilicus, and 10/12 trocar in the lower midline about 7 cm below the
umbilicus within and over the old hysterectomy scar. There were some adhesions
of omentum to the underside of that scar, and these were taken down sharply
using laparoscopic scissors.

We began nephrectomy procedure by reflecting the right colon, by incising the
white line of Toldt. This exposed the retroperitoneum on the right side. The
duodenum was identified and reflected medially in a Kocher maneuver using
sharp dissection only. We then identified the ureter and gonadal vein in the
retroperitoneum. The gonadal vein was left down along the vena cava, and the
plane underneath the ureter was elevated and this plane was carried up towards
the renal hilum. Sequential packets of tissue were taken using primarily the
LigaSure Atlas device. Once we got to the renal hilum, it became apparent that
this patient had two sets of renal arteries and veins. We proceeded then and
skeletonized the structures into four individual packets. We then proceeded to
perform the upper pole dissection and developing the plane above the kidney
and between the kidney and adrenal gland. The adrenal was spared during this
procedure. There was no contiguous connection between the renal mass and a
right adrenal gland. This plane of dissection was taken down primarily using
the LigaSure device. We then sequentially took the four vessels going to the
kidney initially taking two renal arteries with the endo GI stapler and then
to renal veins again with endo GI stapler sequential flaring. Once this was
completed, the kidney was free except for its attachment to the ureter and
lateral attachments. The lateral attachments of the kidney were taken down
using the LigaSure Atlas device, and then the ureter was doubly clipped and
transected. The kidney was then freed within the retroperitoneum. A 50-mm
EndoCatch bag was introduced through the lower most trocar site, and the
kidney was placed into this bag for subsequent extraction. We extended the
lower most trocar site approximately 6 cm to facilitate extraction. The kidney
was removed and passed off the table as a specimen for pathology. This was
bivalved by pathology, and we reviewed the specimen. We found there appeared
to be an excellent margin around the tumor. The old extraction site was then
carefully evaluated for hemostasis and any bleeding points were controlled
with cautery.

The fascia was closed using running 0 Vicryl suture. The abdomen was then re
insufflated, and the entire operative field was carefully evaluated for
hemostasis. Any bleeding points were controlled using primarily Bipolar
cautery or hemoclips. The operative field was copiously irrigated with normal
saline. Several pieces of Surgicel were placed over the adrenal bed in the
renal hilum. There was no significant bleeding noted. The colon was replaced
into its normal anatomic position, and the mesentery was evaluated and there
was no evidence for any mesenteric defects. The lateral most trocar site was
closed using a Carter-Thomason closure device. Note that, the 6-mm upper
trocar had been up sized with 10/12 trocar to facilitate placement of the endo
GI stapler during the hilar dissection, and this was also closed using the
Carter-Thomason closure device with 0 Vicryl. All trocars were removed under
direct visualization and the abdomen was desufflated prior to removal of the
last trocar. The wounds were irrigated with normal saline and infiltrated with
0.25% Marcaine. Then, the skin was closed using running 4-0 Monocryl in
subcuticular fashion. Benzoin and Steri-Strips were placed. The patient was
returned to the supine position, awoke from general anesthetic without
incidence. She was then transferred to the hospital gurney and taken to the
postanesthesia care unit for postoperative monitoring. At the end of the case,
the sponge, instrument, needle counts were correct.