

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 55-year-old gentleman who
presents for further evaluation of right leg weakness. He has difficulty
recollecting the exact details and chronology of his problem. To the best of
his recollection, he thinks that about six months ago he developed weakness of
his right leg. He describes that he is reaching to get something from a
cabinet and he noticed that he was unable to stand on his right toe. Since
that time, he has had difficulty pushing off when he walks. He has mild
tingling and numbness in his toes, but this has been a chronic problem and
nothing new since he has developed the weakness. He has chronic mild back
pain, but this has been persistent for many years and has not changed. He has
experienced cramps in both calves for the past year. This dissipated about two
months ago. He does not think that his left leg is weak. He does not have any
bowel or bladder incontinence. There is no radicular pain. He does not think
that the problem is progressive, meaning that the weakness that he perceives
in his right leg is no different than when it was six months ago.

He first sought medical attention for this problem in October. He then saw you
a couple of months later. He has undergone an EMG and nerve conduction
studies. Unfortunately, he cannot undergo an MRI of his spine because he has
an ear implant. He has had a CT scan that shows degenerative changes, but
nothing obviously abnormal.

In addition, the patient has hyperCKemia. He tells me that he has had an
elevated CK prior to starting taking stat medications, although this is not
entirely clear to me. He thinks that he is not taking Lipitor for about 15
months and thought that his CK was in the 500 or 600s prior to starting it.
Once it was started, it increased to about 800 and then came down to about 500
when it was stopped. He then had a recent bump again up to the 1000 and since
Lipitor has been stopped, his CK apparently has returned to about the 500 or
600s. I do no have any laboratory data to support these statements by the
patient, but he seems to be up to speed on this. More recently, he has been
started taking Zetia. He does not have any proximal weakness. He denies any
myalgias.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has coronary artery disease and has received five
stents. He has hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. He states that he was
diagnosed with diabetes based on the results of an abnormal oral glucose
tolerance test. He believes that his glucose shot up to over 300 with this
testing. He does not take any medications for this and his blood glucoses are
generally normal when he checks it. He has had plastic surgery on his face
from an orbital injury. He also had an ear graft when he developed an ear
infection during his honeymoon.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: He takes amlodipine, Diovan, Zetia,
hydrochlorothiazide, Lovaza (fish oil), Niaspan, aspirin, and Chantix.

ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He lives with his wife. He works at Shepherd Pratt doing
network engineering. He smokes a pack of cigarettes a day and is working on
quitting. He drinks four alcoholic beverages per night. Prior to that, he
drank significantly more. He denies illicit drug use. He was athletic growing
up.

FAMILY HISTORY: His mother died of complications from heart disease. His
father died of heart disease in his 40s. He has two living brothers. One of
them he does not speak too much with and does not know about his medical
history. The other is apparently healthy. He has one healthy child. His
maternal uncles apparently had polio. When I asked him to tell me further
details about this, he states that one of them had to wear crutches due to
severe leg deformans and then the other had leg deformities in only one leg.
He is fairly certain that they had polio. He is unaware of any other family
members with neurological conditions.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: He has occasional tinnitus. He has difficulty sleeping.
Otherwise, a complete review of systems was obtained and was negative except
for as mentioned above. This is documented in the handwritten notes from today
's visit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:

Vital Signs: BP 116/72 Heart rate 68 Respiratory rate 18 Weight 243 pounds
Temperature 98.2 Pain 0/10  
General Appearance: He is well appearing, in no acute distress.  
Cardiovascular: He has a regular rhythm without murmurs, gallops, or rubs.
There are no carotid bruits.  
Chest: His lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.  
Skin: There are no rashes or lesions.  
Musculoskeletal: He has no joint deformities or scoliosis.

NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:

Mental Status: His speech is fluent without dysarthria or aphasia. He is alert
and oriented to name, place, and date. Attention, concentration, registration,
recall, and fund of knowledge are intact.

Cranial Nerves: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation. Optic discs are normal. Visual fields are full. Extraocular
movements are intact without nystagmus. Facial sensation is normal. There is
no facial, jaw, palate, or tongue weakness. Hearing is grossly intact.
Shoulder shrug is full.

Motor: He has mild thinning of his right hamstrings, calf muscles, and
quadriceps on the right. There are scant fasciculations in both calves'
muscles. The tone is normal. There is no action or percussion myotonia or
paramyotonia. Manual muscle testing reveals MRC grade 5/5 strength in all
proximal and distal muscles of the upper extremities. In his lower
extremities, his strength is as follows: hip flexion 5/5 bilaterally, hip
extension 5/5 bilaterally, ankle dorsiflexion 5/5 on the left and 4/5 on the
right, ankle inversion 5/5 bilaterally, ankle eversion 4/5 on the right and
5/5 on the left, toe flexion 4/5 on the right and 5/5 on the left.

Sensory: He has diminished vibratory sensation at both toes. Joint position
sense is intact. Romberg is absent. Light touch, pinprick, and temperature are
intact. He has a Tinel's sign at the right fibular head and bilateral elbows.

Coordination: This is intact by finger-nose-finger and heel-to-shin testing.

Deep Tendon Reflexes: They are 1+ at the biceps, triceps, and brachioradialis.
Patellar jerks are 2+. Ankle jerks are absent. Plantar reflexes are flexor.

Gait and Stance: He has a very mild steppage gait due to the mild right
dorsiflexion weakness. He has difficulty walking on his heels. He also cannot
walk on his toes and cannot do toe raises on the left.

ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 55-year-old gentleman with a six-month
history of mild right leg weakness. He does not complain of a lot of sensory
symptoms. His neurological examination is notable for dorsiflexion and plantar
flexion weakness although he has eversion and not inversion weakness on the
right. He also has mild atrophy of the leg without any obvious sensory
deficits.

I think he seemingly has a peroneal neuropathy with a superimposed lumbosacral
radiculopathy. Alternative diagnoses include a more systemic neuropathy and
certainly his mild diabetes and increased alcohol intake may be contributing
to his problems. I do think that his history that he sits in his chair with
his leg leaning against the desk on the right is probably relevant and
probably causing the worsening of the peroneal neuropathy.

PLAN:

1. I scheduled him to return for an EMG and nerve conduction studies.  
2. If you kindly send me all of his records including specifically the labs
that have been obtained through his primary care physician or through you, I
would appreciate it.  
3. Depending on the results of the study, I may recommend that he undergo a
CT myelogram to better define his anatomy in his back although again it is
unclear if this is a sole etiology for his problems.