

The patient is a 16-year-old gravida 0 female referred by Dr. A for evaluation
of an abnormal colposcopy. The patient had a low-grade Pap with suspicious
high-grade features. She underwent colposcopy, which showed a low-grade
squamous intraepithelial lesion with a positive ECC of low-grade. The patient
is very, very nervous about colposcopy and did not want to have repeat
biopsies today. Based on her Pap and her ECC, we will consider LEEP. Also of
note, she presented to emergency room with right lower quadrant pain x 1 week
preceded by nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea and worsened over the weekend. She
was seen in the emergency room and had an ultrasound and a CAT scan which were
within normal limits. They ruled out appendicitis as well as an ovarian cyst.
The patient is sexually active, but not currently. She denies any vaginal
discharge, fever, chills, or night sweats and her pain is somewhat improved
today, but still there specifically in the right lower quadrant. She denies
any dysuria or blood with urination.

PAST MEDICAL HX: Significant for asthma, pneumonia, and depression.

PAST SURGICAL HX: None.

MEDICATIONS: Prozac 20 mg q.d. She desires to be on the NuvaRing.

ALLERGIES: Lactose intolerance.

SOCIAL HX: She denies smoking or alcohol or drug use.

PE: VITALS: Stable. Weight: 114 lb. Height: 5 feet 2 inches. GENERAL:
Well-developed, well-nourished female in no apparent distress. HEENT: Within
normal limits. NECK: Supple without thyromegaly. HEART: Regular rate and
rhythm. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. There is no
rebound or guarding. No palpable masses and no peritoneal signs. EXTREMITIES:
Within normal limits. SKIN: Warm and dry. GU: External genitalia is without
lesion. Vaginal is clean without discharge. Cervix appears normal; however, a
colposcopy was performed using acetic acid, which showed a thick acetowhite
ring around the cervical os and extending into the canal. BIMANUAL: Reveals
significant cervical motion tenderness and fundal tenderness. She had no
tenderness in her adnexa. There are no palpable masses.

A: Although unlikely based on the patient 's exam and pain, I have to
consider subclinical pelvic inflammatory disease. GC and chlamydia was sent
and I treated her prophylactically with Rocephin 250 mg and azithromycin 1000
mg. Repeat biopsies were not performed based on her colposcopy as well as her
previous Pap and colposcopy by Dr. A. A LEEP is a reasonable approach even in
this 16-year-old.

P: We will schedule LEEP in the near future. Even though she has already
been exposed HPV Gardasil would still be beneficial in this patient to help
prevent recurrence of low-grade lesions as well as high-grade lesions. Now, we
have her given her first shot.