

Chief Complaint: Back and hip pain.

History of Present Illness: The patient is a 73 year old Caucasian male
with a history of hypertension, end-stage renal disease secondary to reflux
nephropathy / restriction of bladder neck requiring hemodialysis and eventual
cadaveric renal transplant now on chronic immunosuppression, peripheral
vascular disease with non-healing ulcer of right great toe, and peripheral
neuropathy who initially presented to his primary care physician in May 2001
with complaints of low back pain and bilateral hip pain. The pain was
described as a constant pain in the middle to lower back and hips. The pain
was exacerbated by climbing stairs and in the morning after sleeping. He
reported occasional radiation of pain from back into buttocks (greatest on the
right side). He has history of chronic feet and leg numbness and paraesthesias
related to his neuropathy, but he denied any recent changes in these symptoms
in relation to the back pain. He denied any history of trauma. He was treated
symptomatically with Acetaminophen with only some relief. He continued to
complain intermittently of pain in his back and hips, and occasionally even in
his elbows during the next 8 months. In January 2002, plain pelvic films
showed no fracture or dislocation of the hips. Elbow films also showed no
acute injury, but there were some erosions along the posterior aspect of the
olecranon. An MRI was performed of his lumbar spine which showed degenerative
disk disease, spondylosis, and annular bulging/herniation at L4-L5 with
resultant encroachment on the neural foramen. He was evaluated by
neurosurgery, who felt he should not have surgery at this time. His pain
continued and progressively worsened, becoming unresponsive to medical therapy
including narcotics

In May 2002, as part of a vascular work-up for the patient