

The patient was prepped and draped. A preauricular incision was made with the
incision extending behind the earlobe and down slightly into the neck.
Anterior and posterior skin flaps were developed. The heavy fascia overlying
the parotid gland was left intact. Posteriorly, the mastoid process and the
anterior edge of the sternocleidomastoid were identified. With blunt
dissection, a small curved clamp was used to separate the gland from the
mastoid process and the sternocleidomastoid muscle. The cartilage of the
external auditory canal was identified. Bleeding was minimal and was treated
with bipolar cautery and 4-0 chromic ties. The great auricular nerve and
external jugular vein were transsected and tied with 3-0 Vicryl sutures. Using
a Mixter clamp the temporoparotid fascia was carefully elevated and
transsected. Then the main trunk of the nerve was visualized and dissected
out. The frontotemporal branch and the marginal mandibular cervical branch
were dissected using a clamp and a #12-blade and transsected through the
gland. Then the buccal and orbital branches were dissected out in like fashion
until the nerve was seen to fall away from the gland. The parotid duct was
tied with 3-0 Vicryl suture, and then the gland was removed. Periodically, the
nerve branches were tested with a low nerve stimulator under a low setting.
The buccinator branch and the mandibular branches were all dissected out in
turn. The nerves were completely intact. A suction drain was inserted into the
depth of the wound and brought out through the skin posteriorly. Subcutaneous
sutures of 4-0 Vicryl were used for closure of the muscles and fat layer. The
skin was closed with interrupted running 6-0 nylon sutures. Suction was
applied to the drain. The patient tolerated the procedure well and left the OR
in satisfactory condition. The patient is to be seen back in the office in two
days for followup exam, suture check, and possibly drain removal.