

HISTORY OF INJURY AND PRESENT COMPLAINTS: The patient is a 59-year-old
gentleman. He is complaining chiefly of persistent lower back pain. He states
the pain is of a rather constant nature. He describes it as a rather constant
dull ache, sometimes rather sharp and stabbing in nature, most localized to
the right side of his back more so than the left side of his lower back. He
states he has difficulty with prolonged standing or sitting. He can only stand
for about 5-10 minutes, then he has to sit down. He can only sit for about
15-20 minutes, he has to get up and move about because it exacerbates his back
pain. He has difficulty with bending and stooping maneuvers. He describes an
intermittent radiating pain down his right leg, down from the right gluteal
hip area to the back of the thigh to the calf and the foot. He gets numbness
along the lateral aspect of the foot itself. He also describes chronic pain
complaints with associated tension in the back of his neck. He states the pain
is of a constant nature in his neck. He states he gets pain that radiates into
the right shoulder girdle area and the right forearm. He describes some
numbness along the lateral aspect of the right forearm. He states he has
trouble trying to use his arm at or above shoulder height. He has difficulty
pushing, pulling, gripping, and grasping with the right upper extremity. He
describes pain at the anterior aspect of his shoulder, in particular. He
denies any headache complaints. He is relating his above complaints to two
industrial injuries that he sustained while employed with Frito Lay Company as
a truck driver or delivery person. He relates an initial injury that occurred
on 06/29/1994, when apparently he was stepping out of the cab of his truck. He
lost his footing and fell. He reached out to grab the hand railing. He fell
backwards on his back and his right shoulder. He had immediate onset of
shoulder pain, neck pain, and low back pain. He had pain into his right leg.
He initially came under the care of Dr. H, an occupational physician in
Modesto. Initially, he did not obtain any MRIs or x-rays. He did undergo some
physical therapy and received some medications. Dr. H referred him to Dr. Q, a
chiropractor for three visits, which the patient was not certain was very
helpful. The patient advises he then changed treating physicians to Dr. N,
D.C., whom he had seen previously for some back pain complaints back in 1990.
He felt that the chiropractic care was helping his back, neck, and shoulder
pain complaints somewhat. He continues with rather persistent pain in his
right shoulder. He underwent an MRI of the right shoulder performed on
08/16/1994 which revealed prominent impingement with biceps tenosynovitis as
well as supraspinatus tendonitis superimposed by a small pinhole tear of the
rotator cuff. The patient was referred to Dr. P, an orthopedic surgeon who
suggested some physical therapy for him and some antiinflammatories. He felt
that the patient might require a cortisone injection or possibly a surgical
intervention. The patient also underwent an MRI of the cervical spine on
08/03/1994, which again revealed multilevel degenerative disc disease in his
neck. There is some suggestion of bilateral neuroforaminal encroachment due to
degenerative changes and disc bulges, particularly at C5-6 and C6-7 levels.
The patient was also seen by Dr. P, a neurologist for a Neurology consult. It
is unclear to me as to whether or not Dr. P had performed an EMG or nerve
conduction studies of his upper or lower extremities. The patient was off work
for approximately six months following his initial injury date that occurred
on 06/29/1994. He returned back to regular duty. Dr. N declared him permanent
and stationary on 04/04/1995. The patient then had a recurrence or flare-up or
possibly new injury, again, particularly to his lower back while working for
Frito Lay on 03/29/1997, when he was loading some pallets on the back of a
trailer. At that time, he returned to see Dr. N for chiropractic care, who is
his primary treating physician. Dr. N took him off work again. He was off work
again for approximately another six months, during which time, he was seen by
Dr. M, M.D., a neurosurgeon. He had a new MRI of his lumbar spine performed.
The MRI was performed on 05/20/1997. It revealed L4-5 disc space narrowing
with prominent disc bulge with some mild spinal stenosis. The radiologist had
noted he had a prior disc herniation at this level with some improvement from
prior exam. Dr. M saw him on 09/18/1997 and noted that there was some
improvement in his disc herniation at the L4-5 level following a more recent
MRI exam of 05/20/1997, from previous MRI exam of 1996 which revealed a rather
prominent right-sided L4-5 disc herniation. Dr. M felt that there was no
indication for a lumbar spine surgery, but he mentioned with regards to his
cervical spine, he felt that EMG studies of the right upper extremity should
be obtained and he may require a repeat MRI of the cervical spine, if the
study was positive. The patient did undergo some nerve conduction studies of
his lower extremities with Dr. K, M.D., which suggested a possible abnormal
EMG with evidence of possible L5 radiculopathy, both right and left.
Unfortunately, I had no medical reports from Dr. P suggesting that he may have
performed nerve conduction studies or EMGs of the upper and lower extremities.
The patient did see Dr. R for a neurosurgical consult. Dr. R evaluated both
his neck and lower back pain complaints on several occasions. Dr. R suggested
that the patient try some cervical epidural steroid injections and lumbar
selective nerve root blocks. The patient underwent these injections with Dr.
K. The patient reported only very slight relief temporarily with regards to
his back and leg symptoms following the injections. It is not clear from the
medical record review whether the patient ever had a cervical epidural steroid
injection; it appears that he had some selective nerve root blocks performed
in the lumbar spine. Dr. R on 12/15/2004 suggested that the patient had an MRI
of the cervical spine revealing a right-sided C5-6 herniated nucleus pulposus
which would explain his C-6 distribution numbness. The patient also was noted
to have a C4-5 with rather severe degenerative disc disease. He felt the
patient might be a candidate for a two-level ACDF at C4-5 and C5-6. Dr. R in
another report of 08/11/2004 suggested that the patient 's MRI of 05/25/2004
of the lumbar spine reveals multilevel degenerative disc disease. He had an
L4-5 slight anterior spondylolisthesis, this may be a transitional vertebrae
at the L6 level as well, with lumbarization of S1. He felt that his
examination suggested a possible right S1 radiculopathy with discogenic back
pain. He would suggest right-sided S1 selective nerve root blocks to see if
this would be helpful; if not, he might be a candidate for a lumbar spine
fusion, possibly a Dynesys or a fusion or some major spine surgery to help
resolve his situation.

The patient relates that he really prefers a more conservative approach of
treatment regarding his neck, back, and right shoulder symptoms. He continued
to elect chiropractic care which he has found helpful, but apparently the
insurance carrier is no longer authorizing chiropractic care for him. He is
currently taking no medications to manage his pain complaints. He states
regarding his work status, he was off work again for another six months
following the 03/29/1997 injury. He returned back to work and continued to
work regular duty up until about a year ago, at which time, he was taken back
off work again and placed on TTD status by Dr. N, his primary treating
physician. The patient states he has not been back to work since. He has since
applied for social security disability and now is receiving social security
disability benefits. The patient states he has tried some Myox therapy with
Dr. H on 10 sessions, which he found somewhat helpful. Overall, the patient
does not feel that he could return back to his usual and customary work
capacity as a delivery driver for Frito Lay.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Unremarkable for medical problems. He relates no
prior injury issues other than the two industrial injuries described above in
my report.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: He has had tonsillectomy. He relates no other
surgeries.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Currently none.

DRUG ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He denies tobacco or alcohol use. He is currently on
social security disability. He has been off work for over a year. He is
married. He has four children. He does relate that he had a history of
alcoholism. He quit drinking at age 23. He has not taken a drink for the past
37 years.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  
General: No recent weight gain or weight loss. No fevers or chills.  
HEENT: No headaches, earaches, or nose or throat symptoms.  
Cardiopulmonary: No chest pain, shortness of breath, or palpitations.  
Gastrointestinal: No abdominal pains, nausea, or vomiting.  
Genitourinary: No dysuria, polyuria, or hematuria.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He stands five feet nine inches in height. He weighs
197 pounds. His blood pressure is 112/78, pulse 92, respirations 20. His HEENT
is PERRLA, EOMI. Thyroid is midline and not enlarged. Throat is not injected.
Lungs are clear. Heart is regular rate and rhythm without murmurs. Abdomen is
soft and nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds heard throughout.
Lower extremities are without pedal edema. There are +1 distal pulses equally.
Examination of the cervical spine revealed some mild decreased range of
motion. Both right and left rotation are about 70 degrees, flexion is to 40
degrees, extension to 40 degrees. Right and left lateral bending are about 40
degrees. Cervical compression test causes pain reproduction in his neck and to
radiate into the right shoulder girdle area. Palpation reveals some mild
hypertonicity in the right cervical trapezius muscles in the right side of his
neck. Hoffman sign is negative. DTRs are absent at the right biceps, but +1 at
the right brachioradialis and right triceps. They are +1 at the left biceps,
triceps and brachioradialis. Sensation is altered to light touch and pin prick
along the lateral aspect of the right forearm in comparison to its counterpart
on the left. On motor strength, he exhibits 4/5 weakness in right shoulder
abduction and right forearm flexion. He is 5/5 in right forearm extension. He
has 5/5 strength in all the muscle groups tested in the left upper extremity.
Phalen 's and Tinel's signs are negative at the wrist and hands. Tinel's sign
is negative at the wrist and the ulnar nerve transposition sites of both the
elbows. There is no translation of the ulnar nerve on flexion and extension of
the elbows themselves. Examination of the lumbar spine reveals diminished
trunk range of motion with flexion allowing his fingertips to grasp just below
his knees only, extension to about 30 degrees. Right and left SLRs are both to
about 80 degrees causing right-sided back pain, more so than the left side.
Braggard's maneuver is negative. Valsalva maneuver causes low back pain, but
does not radiate. DTRs are +1 at the knees, +1 at the ankles. His toes are
downgoing to plantar reflex bilaterally. Sensation is somewhat altered,
decreased at the lateral aspect of the right foot and calf in comparison to
its counterpart on the left. His motor strength appears 5/5 strength in the
lower extremity muscle groups tested. Examination of the right shoulder
reveals decreased range of motion. Lateral abduction is to about 120 degrees,
full forward flexion to 120 degrees, extension to 30 degrees, external
rotation to 60 degrees. On internal rotation, he can place his thumb in the
lower lumbar region only. Palpation reveals tenderness in the right
subacromial region of the shoulder. There is a positive impingement sign on
the right shoulder. There is some disuse atrophy in the right anterior
shoulder girdle itself by comparison visually of the left shoulder.
Circumferential measurements were taken in this right-hand-dominant
individual. The right biceps is 12 inches, left biceps is 13 inches, both
right and left forearm are 11 inches. There is at least one inch of disuse
atrophy in the right biceps itself. There is no retraction of the biceps
belly. There is no sign rupture of the biceps belly. Circumferential
measurements of the lower extremities were 20 inches at both right and left
thighs, 15 inches at both right and left calves. Jamar dynamometry was taken
on three tries. He has 60/60/60 pounds in the right dominant arm; on the left,
it was 80/82/80 pounds suggesting at least 25-30% loss of pre-injury grip
strength in the right dominant upper extremity.

IMPRESSION: (1) Cervical spondylosis with history of disc herniation on
the right at C5-6 with right-sided C6 distribution numbness. (2) Lumbar
degenerative disc disease with disc bulges with history sprain/strain injury
to the lumbosacral spine with chronic myofascial pain disorder. (3) History of
impingement syndrome with sprain/strain injury to the right shoulder with
tendinopathy of the biceps tendon and tenosynovitis of the biceps and
supraspinatus tendons. Also, with a history of pinhole tear of the right
rotator cuff. (4) Disuse atrophy in the right biceps muscle.

OPINION AND SUMMARY: The patient chronicles an industrial injury to his
back, right hip, and right shoulder and neck from an industrial fall from his
work truck occurring initially on 06/29/1994. He was seen initially by Dr. H,
an occupational physician. He received chiropractic care with Dr. Q. He then
transferred his care to Dr. N, a chiropractor, who had seen him previously for
lower back pain complaints back in 1990. The patient had MRIs of his cervical
and lumbar spine and right shoulder performed following this initial injury
event. He had objective findings of a pinhole tear of the right supraspinatus
tendon with tendinopathy involving the supraspinatus tendon and biceps tendon
of the right shoulder with prominent impingement. His MRIs of the cervical and
lumbar spine revealed degenerative disc disease and disc bulges in both the
cervical spine and the lumbar spine. There was some suspicion of disc
herniation at L4-5 initially in his lower back causing the right leg
radiculopathy. He received conservative chiropractic care for six months
following the injury. He returned back to his usual and customary work duties.
He was declared permanent stationary by Dr. N on 04/04/1995. The patient then
incurred another industrial injury on 03/29/1997 while loading some pallets on
the back of his trailer, particularly with the onset or flare-up of low back
pain and right leg symptoms again. The patient was again seen by Dr. N. The
patient also obtained a new MRI of his lumbar spine. The patient also had a
Neurology consult with Dr. P. The patient was also seen for a neurosurgical
consult with Dr. M. Dr. M did not feel that he was a surgical candidate.
Apparently, Dr. M reviewed his previous MRI with a more recent MRI of the
lumbar spine which revealed a resolution of a prior herniated disc on the
right at L4-5. However, Dr. M was concerned about his recurrence of neck pain
and felt that he should have an EMG of the right upper extremity. He felt that
he had some radiculopathy and may require an updated MRI of the cervical
spine. The patient was also seen by Dr. P, an orthopedic surgeon to evaluate
his shoulder pain complaints. Dr. P offered conservative treatment in the way
of physical therapy and antiinflammatories initially. Dr. P felt that if his
shoulder did not improve, he might be a candidate for a cortisone injection or
possible surgical intervention about his right shoulder. The patient has
elected not to undergo any surgical procedures this far or interventional
procedures about his shoulder. However, the patient was also seen by Dr. R, a
neurosurgeon who felt that he had a C6 paresthesia in the right upper
extremity related to a C5-6 right-sided disc herniation in his neck. He also
noted degenerative disc disease at C4-5 level. He felt the patient might
benefit from a cervical epidural steroid injection. It is not clear to me
whether the patient ever had a cervical epidural injection for this. However,
Dr. R suggested he may be a candidate for an ACDF at C4-5 and C5-6 if
conservative measures failed to relieve his neck and right upper extremity
symptoms. The patient was also evaluated by Dr. R for his lower back and right
leg symptoms. Dr. R recommended that the patient have some lumbar epidural
steroid injections or right-sided selective nerve root blocks. The patient did
undergo a bilateral selective nerve root block with Dr. K on at least three
different occasions, which only gave the patient a very temporary relief at
the best lasting a week or so. Basically, the patient has been off work for
the past year. Dr. N too him off work about a year ago placing him back on TTD
status. In the interim, the patient has now applied for and has been accepted
for social security disability. The patient admits that he would not be able
to ever return back to his prior level of work duties required of him at Frito
Lay. Apparently, he states he is still employed by Frito Lay technically. He
has not yet been formally declared permanent and stationary from his recent
exacerbation or new injury to his back, neck, and right shoulder. The patient
has related to me that he prefers a more conservative form of treatment for
his complaints. He has found chiropractic care helpful. He would like to
consider surgical options as a very last resort, but would like have them
remain open as part of his future medical care. It is my opinion and I would
agree with the patient that if he thinks he can manage his situation on a
conservative basis, this should be allowed to him. It is my opinion that I
would declare the patient permanent and stationary at this point.

TOTAL TEMPORARY DISABILITY: Regarding total temporary disability, this
patient has been off work for the past year, again, due to his subsequent
injury of 03/29/1997. This patient should be allowed TTD benefits from the
last date that he worked up until present.

PERMANENT AND STATIONARY STATUS: Regarding permanent and stationary
status, I would consider the patient permanent and stationary as of today on
04/27/2005 with regards to his more recent industrial injury of 03/29/1997.

FACTORS FOR DISABILITY:  
 OBJECTIVE:  
1. He has decreased cervical range of motion and lumbar trunk range of
motion.  
2. He exhibits disuse atrophy in the right shoulder girdle area and right
biceps.  
3. He exhibits diminished grip strength in the right upper extremity, which
is his dominant arm per Jamar dynamometry.  
4. He has an abnormal MRI of the cervical spine revealing disc protrusion at
C5-6 on the right with multilevel degenerative disc disease and spondylosis.
He also exhibits lumbar degenerative disc disease in the lumbar spine.  
5. He has an abnormal MRI of the right shoulder revealing prominent
impingement with tendonitis and tenosynovitis involving the supraspinatus and
biceps tendons.  
6. He has also had an abnormal nerve conduction study of the lower
extremities suggesting a possible L5 radiculopathy on the right and the left
by Dr. K.

SUBJECTIVE:  
1. Based on my evaluation of his neck pain complaints, it would be considered
frequent and slight at rest.  
2. Regarding his right shoulder pain complaints, it would considered frequent
and slight at rest, increasing to a more moderate level with the use of the
arm at or above shoulder height or repetitive pushing, pulling, lifting or
torquing with the right upper extremity.  
3. With regards to his lower back pain complaints, it would be considered
constant and slight at rest. With activities of prolong sitting, standing,
repetitive bending, stooping or lifting, it might increase it to a more
moderate level of pain.

LOSS OF PRE-INJURY CAPACITY: With regards to the loss of pre-injury
capacity, The patient relates that prior to his industrial injuries of
06/29/1994 as well as 03/29/1997, he was capable of repetitively bending and
stooping. He could easily lift about 100 pounds. He states he now has
difficulty performing these tasks. He cannot lift more than 10-15 pounds
without aggravating his back, neck, or shoulder. He also states he could
repetitively use his arm at or above shoulder height. He could push, or pull
and lift at least 40-50 pounds without difficulty, now having difficulty
lifting more than 5-10 pounds with the right upper extremity. He also relates
having difficulty with sustained positions of neck gaze upward and downward as
well as repetitive rotational movements of his neck, which he did not have
prior to his industrial injuries. He states he difficulty with prolonged
sitting or standing for more than 10-15 minutes at a time. He states prior to
his industrial injuries as above, he could prolonged sit and stand for eight
hours at a time without difficulty.

WORK RESTRICTIONS AND DISABILITY: With regards to work restrictions and
disability, I would find it reasonable to place this patient in a disability
category resulting in a limitation to a semi-sedentary work which contemplates
the individual can do work approximately one-half the time in a sitting
position and approximately one-half the time in a standing or walking position
with the minimum of demands for physical efforts whether standing or walking.
Basically, the patient should not be allowed or forced to sit for more than 15
minutes at a time and be allowed five minute interval change. He should not be
allowed to stand for more than 15-20 minutes at a time and be allowed a five
minute interval change in position. The patient should not repetitively bend
or stoop, he should not lift more than 10-15 pounds maximally. He should avoid
repetitive use of the right upper extremity at or above shoulder height and
not repetitively push or pull or lift more than 10 pounds with the right upper
extremity. He should avoid sustained positions of upward and downward gaze and
repetitive motion movements of his neck.

CAUSATION AND APPORTIONMENT: With regards to issues of causation, this
patient 's history of injuries appear consistent with his above complaints
relative to his industrial injury of 06/29/1994 as well as 03/29/1997. With
regards to issues of apportionment, there are two separate industrial injuries
it appears. There has been some suggestion that the second injury of
03/29/1997 was actually a flare-up or exacerbation of his old injury of
06/29/1994. There is no question that the second injury probably did flare up
his injury complaints of 06/29/1994, but also in my opinion, this is a new
injury that occurred on 03/29/1997. It is my opinion that there is some
apportionment in this case. I would apportion at least 50% of his injury to
his new injury of 03/29/1997. The remaining 50% would be apportionable to his
pre-existing injury of 06/29/1994.

FUTURE MEDICAL CARE: Regarding future medical care, it is my opinion that
future medical treatment should be allowed. The patient has in particular
benefited from chiropractic care and Myox type muscle strengthening exercises
for his neck, back, and shoulder pain complaints. Basically, he should be
allowed 12-24 visits of chiropractic care per year to manage his industrial
injury complaints. He should be allowed physical therapy for at 12-24 visits
per year as well. The patient should be allowed access to analgesics,
antiinflammatories, and muscle relaxers from time to time should he choose to
use them. He should also be allowed surgical indication for his right
shoulder, his neck, and lumbar spine should he change his mind about invasive
procedures. Also, injection procedures such as steroid injections in his right
shoulder for shoulder pain as well as epidural steroid injections in the
cervical and lumbar spines should be considered an option for him if he should
change his mind about these as well.

VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION: Regarding vocational rehabilitation, the
patient is a qualified injured worker in my opinion. He is currently on social
security disability. If the patient should choose to re-enter the work force,
he should be allowed access to vocational retraining to do so.