

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Left shoulder injury.  
  
 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 41-year-old male presenting
for initial evaluation of his left shoulder. He works at ABC and two days ago
was walking though an area, where there was some oil spilled on the floor. He
fell and landed on bilateral outstretched arms and then further fell landing
primarily on his left shoulder. He presents today reporting primarily
posterior shoulder pain. The right shoulder was bothersome yesterday, but is
now asymptomatic. He has no anterior shoulder pain. He denies any feelings of
weakness. He reports some improvement over the last two days especially in his
range of motion. He was able to get into the swimming pool last night with his
children without difficulty. He has had no additional treatment other than
over-the-counter Advil.  
  
 PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient has no significant past medical history
with the exception of previous hand fracture and tibia fracture.  
  
 PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Vasectomy.  
  
 ALLERGIES: No know medicine allergies.  
  
 MEDICATIONS: No current medications.  
  
 SOCIAL HISTORY: Works at ABC. Social alcohol and he does smoke.  
  
 REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No fever. No chills. No shortness of breath or
numbness or tingling.  
  
 PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: In general, the patient is an alert and cooperative
male in no acute distress. He has full active and passive range of motion of
the left shoulder, which is symmetric to the right. Forward elevation
approximately 165 degrees with symmetric internal and external rotation. He
has some posterior shoulder discomfort with resisted external rotation. He has
no tenderness over the biceps tendon. No tenderness over the AC joint. No
tenderness over the anterior or lateral acromion. His primary area of
tenderness is over the infraspinatus and supraspinatus fossa of the scapula
posteriorly. He has 4+/5 strength to the supraspinatus, which is somewhat
limited by pain. He has 2+ pulses and sensation is intact over the deltoid as
well as distally in the hand.  
  
 X-RAYS: Two views of the left shoulder were taken in clinic and reviewed
revealing no fractures and no glenohumeral degenerative disease. He does have
some AC degeneration.  
  
 ASSESSMENT: Left shoulder contusion.  
  
 PLAN: At this time, the patient feels he is improving significantly since
his injury. He was given a prescription for Mobic. We offered physical
therapy; however, he feels he is improving rapidly and would like to do range
of motion exercises on his own at home. These were demonstrated for him today.
I also advised him to limit overhead use of his shoulder as much as possible
at work; however, he feels he can return to full duty, so this was written for
him. He will return in four weeks. If he feels 100% better at that time, he
will call and cancel.