

The patient is a 78-year-old female, who was referred to Medical Center's
Outpatient Rehabilitation Department for skilled speech therapy secondary to
cognitive-linguistic deficits. Outpatient skilled speech therapy was
recommended for two times a week to improve her overall memory, executive
function, attention, and visuospatial skills. The patient made excellent
progress during the therapy and she accomplished all of her short-term therapy
goals. She is able to name 15 items in a broad category with minimal queuing.
The patient can sequence activities with greater than 90% accuracy with
minimal queuing. She is able to follow a 3 step direction with greater than
80% accuracy, and she is able to complete visual scanning tasks with greater
than 80% accuracy. The patient is currently able to listen to and/or read a
narrative and be able to recall the main idea plus 3 supporting elements after
a 3-minute delay.

LONG-TERM GOALS: Both functional and cognitive-linguistic ability to
improve safety and independence at home and in the community. This goal has
been met based on the patient and husband reports the patient is able to
complete all activities, which she desires to do at home. During the last
reevaluation, the patient had a significant progress and all cognitive domains
evaluated, which are attention, memory, executive functions, language, and
visuospatial skill. She continues to have an overall mild cognitive-linguistic
deficit, but this is significantly improved from her initial evaluation, which
showed severe impairment.

The patient does no longer need a skilled speech therapy because she has
accomplished all of her goals and her progress has plateaued. The patient and
her husband both agreed with the patient's discharge.