

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Complex Regional Pain Syndrome, right upper
extremity.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Same.

OPERATION: Stellate ganglion block.

ANESTHESIA: Local and sedation.

COMPLICATIONS: None.

DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The procedure risks and hazards were discussed
with the patient and a proper consent was obtained. The patient was monitored
by appropriately and then placed in a supine position on a fluoroscopy table
with a shoulder roll in place with the cervical spine in a slightly extended
position, as much as tolerated. The affected side was prepped with antiseptic
solution and draped in a sterile classical fashion.

The cricoid cartilage is palpated and the fingertips are moved laterally,
displacing the sternocleidomastoid and the carotid sheath laterally.
Chassaignac's tubercle, the transverse process of the 6th cervical vertebra,
is identified under fluoroscopic control palpated and then isolated between
two palpating fingertips. Once the carotid sheath is out of the way, a
22-gauge needle is inserted perpendicularly to all planes and placed on the
anterior lateral border of the C-6 vertebral body and then withdrawn 1-2
millimeters before a negative aspiration is performed for heme and CSF. Three
to five milliliters of nonionic radio-opaque contrast media is injected and
noted to flow over the lateral borders of the ipsilateral cervical vertebral
bodies. This is followed by an injection of 10cc of Marcaine 0.25% in aliquots
of 2 cc with negative aspirations between injections.

The patient tolerated the procedure well without any evidence of complications
or problems. They were experiencing evidence of a Horner's sign after the
block was established. They were experiencing relief from their pain after the
block had set.