

After going to see the patient at approximately 1 a.m. for tachypnea, the
patient was noted to be sating 99 to 100% on face shield. He was calm and his
respiratory rate was approximately 20. After discussion with the rapid
response nurse, it was decided that we will watch him in his bed in our return
to rounds on other patients. Approximately 30 minutes later, I heard over the
hospital intercom there was Code Blue in Mr. X's room and I rapidly proceeded
to his room and found the patient undergoing cardiopulmonary resuscitation. He
was being bag masked and chest compressions were being performed. A quick
consultation with his nurse informed me that the patient was sating 99 to
100%, asked to sit up. His wife and the nurse helped him sit up. When he sat
up, he apparently vomited and afterwards quickly desatted and his heart rate
went to zero, a Code Blue was called, when I arrived on the scene the crash
cart was being moved into position, I helped the nurses attach the monitoring
leads and defibrillation pads on the patient. After, the pads were attached,
we assessed his rhythm and found him to be in ventricular fibrillation. I
ordered a defibrillation at 120, which was followed by 2 minutes of CPR.
During 2 minutes CPR, one of epinephrine and one of atropine was given. During
this time, he was being bag mask ventilated and an anesthesiologist was
consulted to gain a definitive airway. On reassessment of rhythm, the patient
was found to be asystolic and no pulse was felt in his femoral or carotid
arteries. CPR was continued again and another round of epinephrine and
atropine were given. During this time, the anesthesiologist arrived and an ET
tube was placed with positive CO2 return and breath sounds were heard in both
lungs bilaterally. CPR was continued for approximately 20 minutes with a total
of five of epinephrine, 3 of atropine, 2 bicarb, 1 of calcium, and 1 of
magnesium being given. He had positive ventilation during this time with
bilateral breath sounds being monitored at each rhythm check in two-minute
intervals between CPR. After approximately 25 minutes, a junctional rhythm was
seen on the monitor and the patient was found to have a weak pulse. The pulse
was soon lost and CPR was continued. At the next evaluation between CPR, the
patient was found to be back in atrial fibrillation with a positive pulse in
his carotid, femoral and radial arteries. At this time, the patient he was
transported to the ICU. When the patient was transported to the ICU, Dr. A
secondary resident and B, fifth year resident arrived on the seen and took
over the running of the Code. In the ICU, his cardiopulmonary resuscitation
was continued for approximately 20 more minutes after rhythm was lost. Rhythm
was eventually regained and arterial line was introduced that found good
waveform and pressures. The patient was in atrial fibrillation/flutter. Again,
he was placed on epinephrine drip. Labs were sent and post resuscitation chest
x-ray was ordered.