

The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner for an
abdominal procedure. An incision was made into the abdomen down through the
subcutaneous tissue, muscular fascia and peritoneum. Once inside the abdominal
cavity, a self-retaining retractor was placed to expose the pelvic cavity with
3 lap sponges. The uterus was then identified and grasped on the fundus with a
double-toothed tenaculum with upward traction. The round ligaments on either
side were identified and individually dissected and ligated with #0 Vicryl
suture and divided. This allowed us to then create a bladder flap by both
blunt and sharp dissection. The fallopian tube and ovarian ligament were
isolated through the broad ligament from the uterine body and ligated with #0
Vicryl suture and divided as well. We then skeletonized the uterine vessels on
either side and carefully dissected the bladder flap anteriorly. Posteriorly,
the peritoneum was dissected down toward the uterosacral ligaments. Heaney
clamps were then placed at each isthmic portion of the cervical body junction
where the uterine arteries adjoined the uterus. These were clamped, ligated
and divided using #0 Vicryl suture. The remainder of the uterus was then
removed by the clamp-cut-ligation technique using #0 Vicryl on all major
pedicles. With removal of the uterus, the vaginal cuff was closed in the usual
manner as dictated in the operative findings above. Hemostasis was then
inspected and secured throughout the entire area. We closed the peritoneum
over the vaginal cuff using #2-0 Vicryl suture in a running continuous manner.
The ovaries were left in situ and suspended to the sidewalls. The lap sponges
were then removed and the self-retaining retractor was removed. The patient
tolerated the operation nicely. There were no complications associated with
this surgical procedure to this point. The sponge count was correct times 2 at
this time. The Foley catheter was inspected and clear urine was noted. Having
removed all instruments and packs, we then began closure of the abdomen. The
peritoneum was closed with #2-0 Vicryl in a running continuous manner. The
fascia was closed with #0 Vicryl in a running continuous manner and the
subcutaneous tissue was also closed with #2-0 Vicryl in a running continuous
manner. Hemostasis was secured throughout the entire layers. The incision was
then closed as noted in the above operative findings. The patient tolerated
the operation nicely and was then taken to the Recovery Room in good
condition.