

CHIEF COMPLAINT: "Trouble breathing."

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: A 37-year-old German woman was brought to
a Shock Room at the General Hospital with worsening shortness of breath and
cough. Over the year preceding admission, the patient had begun to experience
the insidious onset of shortness of breath. She had smoked one half pack of
cigarettes per day for 20 years, but had quit smoking approximately 2 months
prior to admission. Approximately 2 weeks prior to admission, she noted
worsening shortness of breath and the development of a dry nonproductive
cough. Approximately 1 week before admission, the shortness of breath became
more severe and began to limit her activities. On the day of admission, her
dyspnea had worsened to the point that she became markedly short of breath
after walking a short distance, and she elected to seek medical attention. On
arrival at the hospital, she was short of breath at rest and was having
difficulty completing her sentences. She denied orthopnea, paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea, swelling in her legs, chest pain, weight loss or gain,
fever, chills, palpitations, and sick contacts. She denied any history of
IVDA, tattoos, or high risk sexual behavior. She did report a distant history
of pulmonary embolism in 1997 with recurrent venous thromboembolism in 1999
for which an IVC filter had been placed in Germany . She had been living in
the United States for years, and had had no recent travel. She denied any
occupational exposures. Before the onset of her shortness of breath she had
been very active and had exercised regularly.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Pulmonary embolism in 1997 which had been
treated with thrombolysis in Germany. She reported that she had been on
warfarin for 6 months after her diagnosis. Recurrent venous thromboembolism in
1999 at which time an IVC filter had been placed. Psoriasis. She denied any
history of miscarriage.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: IVC filter placement 1999. Tubal ligation.

FAMILY HISTORY: She reported that her parents were healthy with no
known medical problems. She had five healthy children with no medical
problems. There was no family history of lung disease, thromboembolism,
pulmonary embolism, stroke, or heart disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lived with her five children. She had one
partner and was in a mutually monogamous relationship of 2 years. She had
smoked 10-15 cigarettes per day for approximately 20 years but had quit
smoking approximately 2 months prior to admission. She denied any history of
drug use, alcohol abuse, tattoos, or blood transfusion. She had no
occupational exposures. There were no pets in the home. She denied any recent
travel history.

MEDICATIONS: Ibuprofen PRN.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No headaches. No visual, hearing, or swallowing
difficulties. No changes in bowel or urinary habits.

PHYSICAL EXAM:

Temperature: 97.1 degrees Fahrenheit.

Blood pressure: 122/89.

Heart rate: 126 beats per minute.

Respiratory rate: 24 breaths per minute.

Pulse oximetry: 85% on room air.

GEN: Well developed, well nourished, pleasant Caucasian woman in mild to
moderate respiratory distress, mildly tearful, speaking in short sentences,
with a dusky complexion.

HEENT: NC/AT, PERRL, EOMI, there was a pink to purplish cyanotic discoloration
about the lips, tongue and eyes, the oropharynx was clear with no lesions, the
neck was supple, no lymphadenopathy, no JVD, no bruits, the trachea was
midline, there was a normal carotid upstroke.

HEART: Tachycardic, regular rhythm, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. Normal S1
and S2. The PMI was not displaced. No heave.

LUNGS: Bilateral diffuse crackles, no wheeze, no dullness to percussion.

ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender, nondistended, bowel sounds were present. There was
no hepatosplenomegaly. No rebound or guarding.

EXT: No clubbing, no lower extremity edema or swelling, no palpable cords.
Negative Homans