

The patient was taken to the operating room, and under general anesthesia,
placed in the dorsal lithotomy position, prepped and draped in the usual
sterile fashion. Examination under anesthesia revealed the uterus to be
anteverted, firm, mobile and normal size. No adnexal masses palpated. A
weighted retractor was placed in the posterior vault of the vagina, and the
anterior lip of the cervix was grasped with an Allis clamp and pulled forward.
A Cohen cannula was placed in the endocervical canal and attached to the Allis
clamp to be used for uterine manipulation during laparoscopy. The weighted
speculum was withdrawn.

A 1 cm infraumbilical skin incision was made. Through this a Veress needle was
inserted into the abdominal cavity. The abdomen was filled with approximately
2 liters of CO2 gas. The Veress needle was withdrawn. A trocar sleeve was
placed through the incision into the abdominal cavity. The trocar was
withdrawn and replaced with the laparoscope. A 1 cm suprapubic skin incision
was made. Through this a second trocar sleeve was placed into the abdominal
cavity using direct observation with the laparoscope. The trocar was withdrawn
and replaced with a probe.

The patient was placed in Trendelenburg position, and the bowel was pushed out
of the pelvis. Upon visualization of the pelvis organs, the uterus, fallopian
tubes and ovaries were all normal. The probe was withdrawn and replaced with
the bipolar cautery instrument. The right fallopian tube was grasped
approximately 1 cm distal to the cornual region of the uterus. Electrical
current was applied to the tube at this point and fulgurated. The tube was
then regrasped just distal to this and refulgurated. It was then regrasped
just distal to the lateral point and refulgurated again. The same procedure
was then carried out on the opposite tube. The bipolar cautery instrument was
withdrawn and replaced with the probe. The fallopian tubes were again traced
to their fimbriated ends to confirm the burn points on the tubes. The upper
abdomen was visualized, and the liver surface was normal. The gas was allowed
to escape from the abdomen, and the instruments were removed. The skin
incisions were repaired. The instruments were removed from the vagina.

There were no complications to the procedure. Blood loss was minimal. The
patient went to the postanesthesia recovery room in stable condition.