

REASON FOR VISIT: Weight loss evaluation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. ABC is a 34-year-old woman. She has
suffered from obesity for a while. She has made attempts at nonsurgical weight
loss and has not been successful. She does have a history of pulmonary embolus
and a right lower lobe lobectomy. She is currently doing a lean and green diet
and trying to cut out her bad carb intake. She did mention having some issues
with fruits that did upset her stomach. Last visit, we had talked about her
exercising. She has Gazelle, I believe, and she was going out with her husband
bring it up for her to utilize. Apparently, she made space for it, but it has
not been bought up, so she is still planning on getting that exercising
machine. She is planning to start the patches to quit smoking, and she is
going to be starting the Medifast in the next couple of weeks. She did not
feel quite well today. She has a lot going on with her kids starting back at
schools, so she is feeling a bit stressed.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her temperature is 97.6, her pulse is 72, weight is
309.4 pounds, her blood pressure is 142/94. She has a headache. BMI is 45.5.
She has lost 5.6 pounds since her last visit. She is alert and oriented, in no
apparent distress.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN: Patient with morbid obesity. She has a history of
pulmonary embolus and right lower lobe lobectomy. She is scheduled for a
gastric bypass in 03/10 and a temporary IVC filter for pulmonary embolus. She
is doing the lean and green. I encouraged her to continue to work with it and
try to continue to cut out eating breads and things such as cookies. May be
with the holidays over that will be a bit easier. I would like her to see the
pulmonologist given that she has a history of right lower lobe lobectomy. She
is scheduled to get an ABG and pulmonary function tests recently, but had to
reschedule for those in 02/10. We did again review the plan for surgery. She
will need to do, at least continue to work on losing weight, the closer we can
get to 10% the better. I will see her again next month as we get closer to her
surgery date.